#1
Delivery vans in Pittsburgh. Buses in Milwaukee. Cranes loading freight at the Port of Los Angeles. Every municipal building in Houston. All are powered by electricity derived from the sun, wind or other sources of clean energy.
Across the country, a profound shift is taking place that is nearly invisible to most Americans. The nation that burned coal, oil and gas for more than a century to become the richest economy on the planet, as well as historically the most polluting, is rapidly shifting away from fossil fuels.
A similar energy transition is already well underway in Europe and elsewhere. But the United States is catching up, and globally, change is happening at a pace that is surprising even the experts who track it closely.
Wind and solar power are breaking records, and renewables are now expected to overtake coal by 2025 as the world's largest source of electricity. Automakers have made electric vehicles central to their business strategies and are openly talking about an expiration date on the internal combustion engine. Heating, cooling, cooking and some manufacturing are going electric.
As the planet registers the highest temperatures on record, rising in some places to levels incompatible with human life, governments around the world are pouring trillions of dollars into clean energy to cut the carbon pollution that is broiling the planet.
The cost of generating electricity from the sun and wind is falling fast and in many areas is now cheaper than gas, oil or coal. Private investment is flooding into companies that are jockeying for advantage in emerging green industries.
"We look at energy data on a daily basis, and it's astonishing what's happening," said Fatih Birol, the executive director of the International Energy Agency. "Clean energy is moving faster than many people think, and it's become turbocharged lately."
More than $1.7 trillion worldwide is expected to be invested in technologies such as wind, solar power, electric vehicles and batteries globally this year, according to the I.E.A., compared with just over $1 trillion in fossil fuels. That is by far the most ever spent on clean energy in a year.
Those investments are driving explosive growth. China, which already leads the world in the sheer amount of electricity produced by wind and solar power, is expected to double its capacity by 2025, five years ahead of schedule. In Britain, roughly one-third of electricity is generated by wind, solar and hydropower. And in the United States, 23 percent of electricity is expected to come from renewable sources this year, up 10 percentage points from a decade ago.
Solar and Wind Power Have Taken Off
Electricity generation per year, in terawatt hours
By The New York Times
The Clean Energy Future Is Arriving Faster Than You Think - The New York Times
"The nature of these exponential curves sometimes causes us to underestimate how quickly changes occur once they reach these inflection points and begin accelerating," said former Vice President Al Gore, who called attention to what he termed a "planetary crisis" 17 years ago in his film "An Inconvenient Truth." "The trend is definitely in favor of more and more renewable energy and less fossil energy."
Even as the pace of change in the United States is surprising everyone from energy experts to automobile executives, fossil fuels still dominate energy production at home and abroad.
Corporations are building new coal mines, oil rigs and gas pipelines. The government continues to award leases for drilling projects on public lands and in federal waters and still subsidizes the industries. After posting record profits last year, leading oil companies are backing away from recent promises to invest more heavily in renewable energy.
The scale of change required to remake the systems that power the United States - all the infrastructure that needs to be removed, re-engineered and replaced - is mind-boggling. There are major challenges involved in adding large amounts of renewable energy to antiquated electric grids and mining enough minerals for clean technologies. Some politicians, including most Republicans, want the country to continue burning fossil fuels, even in the face of overwhelming scientific consensus that their use is endangering life on the planet. Dozens of conservative groups organized by the Heritage Foundation have created a policy playbook, should a Republican win the 2024 presidential election, that would reverse course on lowering emissions. It would shred regulations designed to curb greenhouse gases, dismantle nearly every federal clean energy program and boost the production of fossil fuels.
And while energy systems are changing fast, so is the climate. It is far from certain whether the United States and other polluting countries will do what scientists say is required to avert catastrophe: stop adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere by 2050. All of the investment so far has slowed the pace at which emissions are growing worldwide, but the amount of carbon dioxide pumped into the atmosphere is at record levels.
And yet, from Beijing to London, Tokyo to Washington, Oslo to Dubai, the energy transition is undeniably racing ahead. Change is here, even in oil country.
'Energy Is Energy'
As the workday begins in Tulsa, Okla., the assembly line at the electric school bus factory rattles to life. Crews fan out across the city to install solar panels on century-old Tudor homes. Teslas and Ford F-150 Lightnings pull up to charging stations powered in part by the country's second-largest wind farm. And at the University of Tulsa's School of Petroleum Engineering, faculty are working on ways to use hydrogen as a clean energy source.
Tulsa, a former boomtown once known as the "Oil Capital of the World" where the minor league baseball team is the Drillers, is immersed in a new energy revolution.
At the port, an Italian company, Enel, is building a $1 billion solar panel factory. The bus factory is operated by Navistar, one of the biggest commercial vehicle makers in the world. And the city's main electric utility, Public Service Company of Oklahoma, now harvests more than 28 percent of its power from wind.
Clean energy entrepreneurs are flocking to Oklahoma, too. Francis Energy, a fast-growing maker of electric vehicle charging stations, is based in Tulsa. Canoo, an electric vehicle start-up, is building a 100,000-square-foot battery factory at a nearby industrial park and a manufacturing plant for its trucks in Oklahoma City, though there are questions about whether the company will have enough funding to realize its plans. And teams from Solar Power of Oklahoma are busy fastening photovoltaic panels to the roofs of homes and businesses around Tulsa.
The city is embracing its shifting identity.
"We have a tremendous sense of pride in our history," said Dewey F. Bartlett Jr., the Republican former mayor of Tulsa who was an oil and gas executive but now helps recruit clean energy companies to the region. "But we also understand that energy is energy, whether it is generated by wind, steam or whatever it might be."
Around the country, clean energy is taking root in unlikely locales.
Houston, home to more than 500 oil and gas companies, also has more than 130 solar- and wind-related companies. Some of the country's largest wind and solar farms are in the Texas flatlands outside the city, and a huge wind farm has been proposed off the coast of Galveston.
In Arkansas, a planned solar farm - the state's biggest - is expected to help power a nearby U.S. Steel factory that is undergoing a $3 billion upgrade. When complete, the plant will use electric furnaces to mold scrap steel into new products. That will result in about 80 percent less greenhouse gases, the company says, and set the pace for an industry that has been a major polluter.
About two-thirds of the new investment in clean energy is in Republican-controlled states, where policymakers have historically resisted renewables. But with each passing month, the politics seem to matter less than the economics.
"We're the reddest state in the country, and we're an oil and gas state," said J.W. Peters, president of Solar Power of Oklahoma. "So it took a lot of time to convince people that this wasn't snake oil."
Mr. Peters was broke six years ago, with less than $400 in his checking account after his contracting business slowed down. Then he responded to a help-wanted ad looking for workers to install solar panels, which were becoming more popular in Tulsa. He now employs 61 workers and has $18 million in annual sales. "The environmental benefits are nice," he said, "but most people are doing this for the financial opportunity."
'Something Very Dramatic'
Fifteen years ago, solar panels, wind turbines and battery-powered vehicles were widely viewed as niche technologies, too expensive and unreliable for mainstream use.
But clean energy became cheap far faster than anyone expected. Since 2009, the cost of solar power has plunged by 83 percent, while the cost of producing wind power has fallen by more than half. The price of lithium-ion battery cells fell 97 percent over the past three decades.
Today, solar and wind power are the least expensive new sources of electricity in many markets, generating 12 percent of global electricity and rising. This year, for the first time, global investors are expected to pour more money into solar power - some $380 billion - than into drilling for oil.
The Cost of Renewable Energy Has Plummeted
Cost of building and running new power plants, in dollars per megawatt hour
Notes: Charts reflect the mean levelized cost of energy, which captures the price of building and running new power plants but excludes other electrical system costs. Lazard did not release data for 2022. In 2023, costs rose because of supply-chain problems, inflation and other issues.
The rapid drop in costs for solar energy, wind power and batteries can be traced to early government investment and steady improvements over time by hundreds of researchers, engineers and entrepreneurs around the world.
"The world has produced nearly three billion solar panels at this point, and every one of those has been an opportunity for people to try to improve the process," said Gregory Nemet, a solar power expert at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. "And all of those incremental improvements add up to something very dramatic."
An equally potent force, along with the technological advances, has been an influx of money - in particular, a gusher since 2020 of government subsidies.
In the United States, President Biden signed a trio of laws during his first two years in office that allocated unprecedented funds for clean energy: A $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure law provided money to enhance the power grid, buy electric buses for schools and build a national network of electric vehicle chargers. The bipartisan CHIPS and Science Act set aside billions of dollars for semiconductors vital to car manufacturing. And the Inflation Reduction Act, which marks its first anniversary on Aug. 16, is by far the most ambitious attempt to fight climate change in American history.
That landmark law provided tax breaks related to electric vehicles, heat pumps and energy efficiency upgrades, solar panel and wind turbine manufacturing and clean hydrogen production. The government is also investing in efforts to capture carbon emissions and store them before they can reach the atmosphere, as well as technology that can remove them directly from the air.
Originally estimated to cost roughly $391 billion between 2022 and 2031, the tax breaks are proving so popular with manufacturers and consumers that estimates now put the cost as high as $1.2 trillion over the next decade.
Combined, the three laws have prompted companies to announce at least $230 billion in manufacturing investments so far. In Georgia, a Korean solar manufacturer, Qcells, is building a $2.5 billion plant. In Nevada, Tesla is building a new $3.6 billion electric truck factory. And in Oklahoma, the Enel and Canoo facilities are primed to benefit from the Inflation Reduction Act, as is a new $4.4 billion battery factory being considered by Panasonic, the Japanese conglomerate.
"There's a lot of appetite to invest in the United States thanks to that law," said Giovanni Bertolino, an executive at Enel, adding that the plant his company is building in Tulsa would not exist without the Inflation Reduction Act.
Regulations are also hastening the energy transition. Mr. Biden has proposed tough new federal pollution limits on tailpipes and smokestacks, but several states are acting on their own. California, with market muscle that influences the entire auto industry, plans to halt sales of new gas-powered cars by 2035 and new diesel-powered trucks by 2036 - and a handful of states are following suit. In May, New York became the first state to ban gas hookups in most new buildings, requiring all-electric heating and cooking starting in 2026. Several cities, including New York and San Francisco, have similar prohibitions, although some Republican-controlled states have blocked their municipalities from banning gas.
Heavy investment by the United States has spurred a spirited reaction from other wealthy nations. Countries that initially complained that the United States was unfairly subsidizing clean energy manufacturers have since engaged in a sort of friendly subsidy race.
Canada, South Korea and others have pushed for their companies to have better access to the American incentives, while offering similar subsidies to their domestic manufacturers. After Russia invaded Ukraine last year, the European Union moved to lessen its dependence on Russian oil and gas. In May, for the first time ever, wind and solar power in the E.U. generated more electricity than fossil fuels.
And in China, which is currently both the world's top polluter and the global leader for renewable power, the government continues to invest in every stage of clean energy production, from solar cells to batteries, wind turbines and more. Like the United States, China provides subsidies to buyers of electric vehicles. Last year it spent $546 billion on clean energy, far more than any other country in the world.
With costs falling fast, manufacturing has picked up and installations of solar and wind projects have increased. The U.S. solar industry installed a record 6.1 gigawatts of capacity in the first quarter of 2023, a 47 percent increase over the same period last year.
And those low costs have led many of the United States' biggest corporations, such as Alphabet, Amazon and General Motors, to purchase large amounts of wind and solar power, because it burnishes their reputations and because it makes good economic sense.
"We're seeing the nonlinear change happen before us," said Jon Creyts, chief executive of RMI, a nonprofit organization that promotes the energy transition. "And that's important, because we're facing a climate crisis right now."
'A National Phenomenon'
Steve Uerling's Tulsa home is a model of energy efficiency. He replaced all his incandescent light bulbs with LEDs. He installed a heat pump and rooftop solar panels this year. And he drives a plug-in hybrid Ford Fusion and a Tesla Model 3.
Mr. Uerling, a mechanical engineer, said he wanted to see renewable power take off in Oklahoma and was trying to do his part. But he was also driven by his wallet.
"My fuel cost is equivalent to getting 200 miles a gallon on gasoline," he said. "We charge at night, when we get a much cheaper rate on our electricity."
Millions of people around the country are making similar calculations. Electric vehicles are by far the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry, with record sales of 300,000 in the second quarter of 2023, a 48 percent increase from a year earlier. Teslas are now among the best-selling cars in the country, and Ford has expanded its production of the F-150 Lightning, the electric version of its popular pickup truck, after a surge of initial demand created a waiting list.
Concerns among consumers about the availability of charging stations as well as the cost of some models have helped to cool sales somewhat, leading some automakers to slash prices. Still, federal tax credits of up to $7,500 have made the least expensive electric vehicles competitive with gas-powered cars. And about two dozen states offer additional tax credits, rebates or reduced fees, further pushing down their cost.
Government action is also helping heavier vehicles go electric. Sales of electric school buses are soaring, largely because of $5 billion in federal grants that can cover 100 percent of the cost for low-income communities. The Postal Service plans to spend nearly $10 billion to purchase 66,000 electric mail trucks - roughly 30 percent of its fleet - over the next five years.
In the private sector, Amazon has ordered 100,000 electric delivery trucks from Rivian. Tesla has an electric semitruck, as do several other manufacturers, including Peterbilt.
Companies that provide charging stations are springing up to meet the demand. Francis Energy has more than 400 chargers across Oklahoma and is expanding nationwide. EVgo, which has one of the largest fast-charging networks in the United States, plans to more than double the 3,000 charging stalls it operates.
"It is not a red-state, blue-state thing," said Cathy Zoi, EVgo's chief executive. "It is a national phenomenon."
In an unusual move, seven carmakers - BMW Group, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mercedes-Benz Group and Stellantis - are spending $1 billion in a joint venture to build 30,000 charging ports on major highways and other locations in the United States and Canada.
The shift is happening so quickly that some of America's most iconic automakers are preparing for a world beyond gasoline-powered cars and trucks.
General Motors, which has the largest market share of any carmaker in the United States, has committed to selling only zero-emissions vehicles by 2035. It's a "once-in-a-generation inflection point" for the 114-year-old automaker, according to Mary Barra, G.M.'s chief executive.
In an interview, Ms. Barra said her company began to consider an all-electric future in 2020. "We started to see this happening with the consumer research we did," said Ms. Barra, who has subsequently bet billions on G.M.'s efforts to reorient its engineering, overhaul its manufacturing facilities and processes and build new battery plants.
As the cost of batteries comes down, and the number of charging stations nationwide goes up, Ms. Barra expects exponential growth. "I think it's going to be definitely an upward trajectory," she said. "It'll be a little bumpy, but bumpy growing."
#2
When Russia cut off a key flow of cheap natural gas this year following its invasion of Ukraine, many European countries were left scrambling for fuel as prices soared, raising serious questions about the continent's energy future.
But gas wasn't the only fuel to face a major test this year. Nuclear and hydropower faltered amid maintenance delays and extreme weather, while record wind and solar power generation saved Europe from a far worse fate, according to data from Ember, an energy think tank.
Europe's Energy Mix During Its Year of Crisis
A series of six line charts showing steady usage of gas and coal, low nuclear and hydropower, and high wind and solar power this year compared to previous years since 2015
Despite major disruptions and price spikes, gas power remained stable this year and an early increase in coal generation didn't last.
Europe's energy crisis has stabilized for now, but uncertainty over the continent's power supply could linger for years. High inflation has added to the pressure for leaders to diversify energy sources.
The response of some European countries to the crisis has complicated their positions at this year's U.N. climate summit, currently underway in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt. European countries outspent rivals to stockpile gas ahead of winter this year, seeking out new supplies from the United States to Africa, and pricing many poorer countries out of the market.
But the European Union's long-term policy commitments have doubled down on renewables since the start of the war - at least on paper. Analysts suggest the shocks from the Ukraine war seem likely to accelerate, not slow, Europe's transition to clean energy.
Making that transition economically and sustainably will require balancing the role of each energy source on Europe's path to reaching net zero carbon emissions.
For decades, Europe grew heavily dependent on Russian gas. The low prices were tempting. So was the idea that, as the "cleanest of the fossil fuels," gas gave progressive leaders an off-ramp from dirtier coal. By last year, the European Union depended on Russia for 40 percent of its total gas consumption.
Russia started to throttle its gas supply to Europe, and after invading Ukraine, the country cut gas flows further in retaliation against European sanctions. Pipelines connecting the regions, the Nord Stream 1 and 2, were sabotaged by a series of explosions in September.
Changes in the Gas Market Led to Price Spikes
A line chart showing the rise decline of Russian gas imports and rise of LNG imports into the EU, followed by another line chart showing the steep rise in prices.
Russian gas imports started a decline as early as Spring 2021, but fell precipitously after the invasion of Ukraine.
To fill the gap, Europe had to go searching for new sources and found it primarily in liquefied natural gas from the United States, where production is expected to hit a record high this year. LNG is about 600 times more compact than its gaseous form and can be moved anywhere in the world through specialized ships and ports.
That portability meant that Europe had to compete for LNG against many different bidders.
Europe had no option but to pay up. Beyond its use in generating electricity, many homes are still heated with gas, and some industries depend on it both as a power source for factories and as a raw material. Businesses across Europe were among the hardest-hit, with manufacturers pausing or shutting down factories over sharply rising costs.
Since the start of the war, Europe has also used more coal. Power generation from coal has increased more than 12 percent compared with the same period last year.
Europeans and key industries also lowered their energy use since the start of the war. A mild start to winter has also lessened gas demand at the same time Europe has filled their reserves, helping to alleviate the gas crunch ahead of winter.
Nuclear: At Historic Lows
France was supposed to be insulated from fossil fuel price shocks, like the Russian gas cuts, thanks to its large fleet of domestic nuclear power plants. Typically, more than 70 percent of its power generation comes from nuclear, and the country is a net-exporter of electricity.
But currently half of France's aging nuclear reactors remain offline for repairs and scheduled maintenance that had been delayed because of the coronavirus pandemic, which plagued the fleet all year. An extreme summer heat wave put added stress on the system by limiting power plants' cooling capacity. Labor strikes further exacerbated the nuclear energy crunch.
Nuclear power plants are also expensive to build and run. France's state-backed nuclear energy operator is nearly €45 billion in debt and will become fully nationalized to ensure a steady energy supply.
While nuclear power can be safe and stable under most circumstances, it has long been controversial among environmental activists because it carries other risks.
In Germany, nuclear power generation has been declining for years. While nuclear power used to supply over a quarter of the country's energy in the early 2000s, Germany's anti-nuclear movement exerted political pressure to close its reactors following the nuclear meltdown in Fukushima, Japan.
Though Germany was set to close its three remaining nuclear reactors this year, Chancellor Olaf Scholz ordered an extension to their operation until spring next year, in light of the current crisis.
Hydro: Strained by Heat and Drought
Unprecedented heat and drought spurred on by climate change and three straight years of La Niña also became a major setback for hydroelectric power. Rivers in southern Europe reached record lows.
The lack of hydro and nuclear power was a real problem amid the gas crisis, said Carlos Torres Diaz, head of power markets research at Rystad Energy, an independent energy consultancy. "If these two sources were at the normal level, then Europe probably would not have needed so much gas."
Europe is warming around twice as fast as the rest of the world. The glaciers that help store and release meltwater are diminishing quickly, and hot, dry summers like this year's could become more common.
A study last year found that global warming would lead to decreased annual stream flows in Southern Europe by the end of the century, affecting hydroelectric power, but suggested Northern Europe would see increased flows.
In 2017, wind surpassed hydroelectricity as the largest renewable source of power for the European Union.
Solar and Wind: Rising
A record year for solar and wind power saved the European Union €11 billion in gas costs this year, generating around a quarter of total electricity since the war began. It still wasn't enough to offset the losses from nuclear and hydropower this year, or curb consumption of fossil fuels.
As percent of total generation mix
Some critics, including the C.E.O. of Exxon Mobil, have blamed the current energy crisis at least partly on the transition to renewables, arguing that European countries have underinvested in fossil fuels. But other energy experts argued that Europe has not transitioned to renewables quickly enough, noting that more domestically produced wind and solar power could have blunted the effects of Russia's gas cuts.
"People who point their finger at renewables as the source of the problem - that's really exactly the wrong direction," said Lion Hirth, a professor of energy policy at the Hertie School in Berlin. "The problem is that we have too little renewables, and built too little and too slowly over the past 10 years, not too much and too fast."
In May, the European Commission put out a plan for achieving energy independence from Russia that leaned further into the renewable energy transition. Known as REPowerEU, it encourages diversifying fossil fuel sources and accelerating the adoption of renewable energy sources like wind and solar, and also pushes for greater energy savings.
The plan would also help Europe move closer to reaching its ambitious climate goals.
But major challenges remain. Solar power, in particular, has supply chain risks of its own. China has a near-monopoly on the raw materials and technical expertise to produce photovoltaic cells for solar panels. An analysis from Bloomberg BNEF found it would take nearly $150 billion for Europe to build the plants to manufacture enough solar capacity and storage to meet demand by 2030.
Achieving energy security and meeting climate goals will take far greater investment and cooperation between European countries than ever before, according to energy experts.
"One of Europe's founding fathers - Jean Monnet - used to say that Europe would be made out of crisis," said Simone Tagliapietra, a senior fellow at Bruegel, an energy think tank. "Europe will come out of this energy crisis more united when it comes to energy and climate policy."
#3
Wars have unintended consequences.
Russia's war in Ukraine seems to have sped up the global energy transition from fossil fuels to renewables.
This is a big deal. Most of us take for granted that we will enter a dark room and flick on the lights, that our homes will be warm in winter, that we will look out the window of a car and watch the world go by.
But what powers our lives is undergoing a huge change.
Consider three recent developments.
First, according to the International Energy Agency, an estimated $1.4 trillion poured into "clean energy" projects in 2022, a category that includes solar farms, batteries and electric vehicle charging stations. That's more than ever before, and more than the money that poured into new oil and gas projects. Fatih Birol, the head of the agency, described the energy crisis spurred by the Russian invasion as "an accelerator for clean energy transitions."
Second, BloombergNEF, a research firm, described this direction of change in a report published last week. Investments in low-carbon energy "reached parity" with capital aimed at expanding fossil fuels, it said.
And finally, the oil giant BP said this week that it expected the war in Ukraine would push countries to ramp up renewable energy projects for the sake of energy security, and that oil and gas demand could peak sooner than the company had anticipated just a year ago.
Spoiler alert: The shift away from fossil fuels isn't happening fast enough to stay within relatively safe boundaries of climate change. For that to happen, a handful of big emerging economies in Asia, Africa and Latin America will need more renewable energy projects. Financing those projects is more expensive in the countries of the global south than it would be in Europe and North America.
You're going to hear a lot more going forward about the energy transition. It's worth pausing for a minute today and looking at how big these changes are.
Energy security doesn't mean fossil fuels anymore.
Nearly a year ago, right after the Russian invasion, the oil and gas industry made a full-throated pitch that it was key to energy security and affordability. For a while, there was lots of hand-wringing about whether the world's climate goals would be sacrificed at the altar of energy security.
But since then, renewable projects have been ramped up, not just on climate grounds, but rather in the name of energy security. Renewables are increasingly affordable, once they're built, and they offer security as well.
In Europe, wind and solar accounted for 22 percent of electricity generation last year, overtaking for the first time the share of gas (20 percent) and coal (16 percent), according to Ember, a research firm.
"In 2023, Europe is set to witness a huge fall in fossil fuels - of coal power, yes, but especially gas power," said the Ember report, which published on Tuesday.
Globally, renewable energy installations grew by 25 percent in 2022.
China's investments exceeded, by a long shot, that of every other country.
Especially in the industrialized world, many people are going electric.
Never mind Tesla's troubles. The electric car transition is in high gear.
In 2022, nearly 15 percent of all new car sales globally were electric, compared to 3 percent of all new car sales in 2019, according to the I.E.A. China dominates the market. More electric cars were sold in China than anywhere else. China's biggest electric car and bus maker, BYD, has a higher global market share than Tesla.
At this pace, Birol said in an interview with Times journalists on Friday, by 2030, every second car sold in the biggest car markets - China, the United States and Europe - will be powered by electricity, not fossil fuels.
The heat pump became a hot item, especially in Europe this winter.
That's a huge shift. For more than a hundred years, we have heated buildings with coal, oil, gas and wood. Globally, heat pump sales grew by 15 percent, according to the I.E.A. In some European countries, sales doubled in the first few months of 2022, following the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
We're not moving fast enough, though.
These changes, accelerated by the Russian invasion, are improving the world's "clean energy transition prospects," Birol said, though it will not be enough to stay within what scientists consider safe boundaries: limiting average global temperature rise to 1.5 degree Celsius between the mid-19th century and the end of this century.
That will need better financing terms for emerging economies.
I hear this often from diplomats and entrepreneurs trying to build renewable energy projects in countries like India, Brazil and South Africa. It's still way too expensive to borrow money.
If you want to develop a solar project in Brazil or India, Birol said, you're likely to pay three times more for financing than if you were to build the same project in Europe.
That has huge climate implications. The energy demands of these big emerging economies are growing fast. If they can't finance renewables, they'll turn to gas instead. Or worse, to coal.
"The biggest hurdle in front of us is the cost of capital," Birol said.
Julie Goodman, a toxicologist, in an image from a 2021 online meeting.Credit...Town of Hanover, Mass.
#4
Government offices in Iran are closed or operating at reduced hours. Schools and colleges have moved to online only. Highways and shopping malls have descended into darkness, and industrial plants have been denied power, bringing manufacturing to a near halt.
Although Iran has one of the biggest supplies of natural gas and crude oil in the world, it is in a full-blown energy crisis that can be attributed to years of sanctions, mismanagement, aging infrastructure, wasteful consumption - and targeted attacks by Israel.
"We are facing very dire imbalances in gas, electricity, energy, water, money and environment," said President Masoud Pezeshkian in a live televised address to the nation this month. "All of them are at a level that could turn into a crisis."
While Iran has been struggling with issues with its infrastructure for years, the president warned that the problem had reached a critical point.
For most of last week, the country was virtually shut down to save energy. As ordinary Iranians fumed and industrial leaders warned that the accompanying losses amounted to tens of billions of dollars, Mr. Pezeshkian could offer no solution other than to say he was sorry.
"We must apologize to the people that we are in a situation where they have to bear the brunt," Mr. Pezeshkian said. "God willing, next year we will try for this not to happen."
Image
Widespread power cuts could last for days or weeks.
Officials have said the deficit in the amount of gas the country needs to function amounts to about 350 million cubic meters a day, and as temperatures have plunged and demand has spiked, officials have had to resort to extreme measures to ration gas.
The government faced two stark choices. It either had to cut gas service to residential homes or shut down the supply to power plants that generated electricity.
It chose the latter, as turning gas off to residential units would come with serious safety hazards and would cut off the primary source of heat for most Iranians.
"The policy of the government is to prevent at all costs cutting gas and heat to homes," Seyed Hamid Hosseini, a member of the Chamber of Commerce's energy committee, said in a telephone interview. "They are scrambling to manage the crisis and contain the damage because this is like a powder keg that can explode and create unrest across the country."
By Friday, 17 power plants had been completely taken off line and the rest were only partially operational.
Tavanir, the state power company, warned producers of everything from steel to glass to food products to medicine that they needed to brace for widespread power cuts that could last days or weeks. The news has sent both state-controlled and private industries into a tailspin.
Mehdi Bostanchi, the head of the country's Coordination Council of Industries, a nationwide body that acts as a liaison between industries and the government, said in an interview from Tehran that the situation was catastrophic and unlike anything industries had ever experienced.
He estimated that losses from just this past week could reduce manufacturing in Iran by at least 30 percent to 50 percent and amount to tens of billions of dollars in losses. He said that while no enterprise had been spared, smaller and medium factories were hit the hardest.
"Naturally, the damages from the widespread and abrupt power outage that has lasted all week will be extremely serious for industries," Mr. Bostanchi said.
A small wood factory in Tehran, idled by power cuts.
The energy crisis has hit Iran at a particularly difficult geopolitical time.
Iran's regional status as a power player has been severely diminished following the collapse of the al-Assad government in Syria and Israel's decimation of Hezbollah in Lebanon. The return of President-elect Donald J. Trump is expected to bring maximum pressure on the regime, with policies that will further squeeze the economy.
The country's currency, the rial, has also been in free fall this week, plunging to its lowest rate ever against the dollar.
All this has left the government vulnerable as it scrambles to contain each crisis.
A lesser-known factor has exacerbated the energy crisis this year: In February Israel blew up two gas pipelines in Iran as part of its covert war with the country. As a result, the government quietly tapped into emergency gas reserves to avoid service disruption to millions of people, according to an official from the oil ministry and Mr. Hosseini, the member of the Chamber of Commerce's energy committee.
Mr. Pezeshkian, elected president in July, has said that his government inherited a depleted energy store that it has not been able to replenish.
Natural gas accounts for about 70 percent of Iran's sources of energy, a rate much higher than those in the United States and Europe, according to international energy studies. The government implemented an ambitious project of taking gas to all corners of Iran, including small villages, and now about 90 percent of Iranian homes rely on gas for heat and cooking.
Analysts attributed the current crisis to a host of problems, including an ailing infrastructure across the entire production and supply chain. Because of sanctions, Iran has found it difficult to attract foreign investments to expand and modernize its energy sector, analysts said. Mismanagement, corruption and cheap prices that fuel wasteful consumption are among other factors.
"All across the chain you basically see challenges where Iran is not able to produce as much electricity as it needs, and at the same time it is not able to reduce its consumption," said Esfandyar Batmanghelidj, chief executive of the Bourse & Bazaar Foundation, a London-based economic think tank that tracks Iran's economy. "It's very difficult to keep this going."
Iran began enforcing two-hour scheduled daily power cuts to residential homes in November, but that did not suffice. The power cuts now happen more randomly and last longer. For two days last week, schools, universities, banks and government offices were shut down with a day's notice in all but three of Iran's 31 provinces to save energy.
By Thursday, the government said all schools and higher education would move online, a measure not taken since the pandemic, for the remainder of the semester, which runs for about three more weeks. Then, on Friday, the governor of Tehran said schools there would be open on Saturday because of final exams.
Government offices will be working at reduced hours, ending work at 2 p.m. until further notice to reduce energy consumption.
Saeed Tavakoli, the head of the state gas company, said the gas service to some 73,000 housing units was cut off after agents, knocking door to door, identified them as second vacation homes in the mountains near Tehran and the shores of the Caspian Sea in the north.
Ordinary Iranians are waking up every day not knowing if they will be able to go to work or send their children to school, or if the elevators or traffic lights will function.
"The power outage has severely affected daily life and work. When the power goes out, the water is also cut off and the boilers are turned off, and, as a result, all the heating devices are out of order," said Sephideh, a 32-year-old teacher in Tehran, who said her online English classes are routinely canceled because the internet goes out. She asked that only her first name be used, out of fear of retribution from authorities.
Nader, a dentist who also requested only to be identified by his first name, said he sometimes had to stop work on patients' mouths midway because of power cuts.
The owner of one of the largest manufacturing plants for construction material said in an interview from Tehran that his business had survived revolution, war and sanctions but that none of those things had been as chaotic and stressful as events of the past week. He said an overwhelming sense of uncertainty was spreading among the private sector, with the country slipping into uncharted territory with crisis after crisis that the government seemed unable to control.
Soheil, a 37-year-old engineer at a household appliance production factory in Isfahan, said the power cuts would force the factory to lay off workers and downsize because power cuts had already led to higher production costs.
Mr. Pezeshkian has started a video campaign of officials and celebrities urging Iranians to reduce energy consumption by lowering the temperature of their homes at least two degrees. Videos on state media showed the presidential compound with no lights at night.
#5
Something unusual is happening in America. Demand for electricity, which has stayed largely flat for two decades, has begun to surge.
Over the past year, electric utilities have nearly doubled their forecasts of how much additional power they'll need by 2028 as they confront an unexpected explosion in the number of data centers, an abrupt resurgence in manufacturing driven by new federal laws, and millions of electric vehicles being plugged in.
Many power companies were already struggling to keep the lights on, especially during extreme weather, and say the strain on grids will only increase. Peak demand in the summer is projected to grow by 38,000 megawatts nationwide in the next five years, according to an analysis by the consulting firm Grid Strategies, which is like adding another California to the grid.
"The numbers we're seeing are pretty crazy," said Daniel Brooks, vice president of integrated grid and energy systems at the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit organization.
In an ironic twist, the swelling appetite for more electricity, driven not only by electric cars but also by battery and solar factories and other aspects of the clean-energy transition, could also jeopardize the country's plans to fight climate change.
At least 75 data centers have opened in Virginia since 2019.
 Nathan Howard for The New York Times
In California, electric vehicles could soon account for 10 percent of peak power demand.
 Lauren Justice for The New York Times
To meet spiking demand, utilities in states like Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia are proposing to build dozens of power plants over the next 15 years that would burn natural gas. In Kansas, one utility has postponed the retirement of a coal plant to help power a giant electric-car battery factory.
Burning more gas and coal runs counter to President Biden's pledge to halve the nation's planet-warming greenhouse gases and to generate all of America's electricity from pollution-free sources such as wind, solar and nuclear by 2035.
"I can't recall the last time I was so alarmed about the country's energy trajectory," said Tyler H. Norris, a former solar developer and expert in power systems who is now pursuing a doctorate at Duke University. If a wave of new gas-fired plants gets approved by state regulators, he said, "it is game over for the Biden administration's 2035 decarbonization goal."
Some utilities say they need additional fossil fuel capacity because cleaner alternatives like wind or solar power aren't growing fast enough and can be bogged down by delayed permits and snarled supply chains. While a data center can be built in just one year, it can take five years or longer to connect renewable energy projects to the grid and a decade to build some of the long-distance power lines they require. Utilities also note that data centers and factories need power 24 hours a day, something wind and solar can't do alone.
Yet many regulated utilities also have financial incentives to build new gas plants, since they can recover their costs to build plants, wires and other equipment from ratepayers and pocket an additional percentage as profit. As a result, critics say, utilities often overlook, or even block, ways to make existing power systems more efficient or to integrate more renewable energy into the grid.
"It is entirely feasible to meet growing electricity demand without so much gas, but it requires regulators to challenge the utilities and push for less-traditional solutions," Mr. Norris said.
The stakes are high. If more power isn't brought online relatively soon, large portions of the country could risk blackouts, according to a recent report by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, which monitors the health of the nation's electric grids.
"Right now everyone's getting caught flat-footed" by rising demand for electricity, said John Wilson, a vice president at Grid Strategies.
Why Electricity Demand Is Spiking
In Virginia, power-hungry data centers are being approved at breakneck pace.
For much of the 20th century, America's electricity use increased steadily and utilities built plenty of coal, gas and nuclear plants in response. But starting in the mid-2000s, demand flattened. The economy and population kept expanding, but factories, lightbulbs and even refrigerators became much more energy efficient.
Now demand is rising again, for several reasons.
The growth of remote work, video streaming and online shopping has led to a frenzied expansion of data centers across the nation. The rise of artificial intelligence is poised to accelerate that trend: By 2030, electricity demand at U.S. data centers could triple, using as much power as 40 million homes, according to Boston Consulting Group.
In Northern Virginia, one of the nation's largest data center hubs, at least 75 facilities have opened since 2019 and Dominion Energy, the local utility, says data center capacity could double in just five years.
In Georgia, large new manufacturing hubs are looking to hook into the grid.
At the same time, investment in American manufacturing is hitting a 50-year high, fueled by new federal tax breaks to lift microchip and clean-tech production. Since 2021, companies have announced plans to spend at least $525 billion on factories for semiconductors, batteries, solar panels and more.
In Georgia, where dozens of electric vehicle companies and suppliers are setting up shop, the state's largest utility now expects 16 times as much growth in electricity demand this decade as it did two years ago.
Millions of Americans are also buying plug-in vehicles and electric heat pumps for their homes, spurred by recent federal incentives. In California, one-fifth of new cars sold are electric, and officials estimate that E.V.s could account for 10 percent of power use during peak hours by 2035.
On top of that, record heat fueled by global warming is spurring people to crank up air-conditioning, causing summer demand in Arizona and Texas to rise faster than forecast.
Many worry the grid won't keep up.
PJM Interconnection, which oversees the nation's largest regional grid, stretching from Illinois to New Jersey, is now expecting an additional 10,000 megawatts of demand by 2030 that wasn't forecast last year. That's akin to adding another New York City to the system.
"To see that come on all of the sudden, even for a system as big as ours, that's significant," said Ken Seiler, who leads system planning for PJM.
Finding enough power could be a challenge, since PJM's process for connecting renewable energy projects to the grid has been afflicted by delays. Utilities in PJM have been preparing to retire roughly 40,000 megawatts of mostly coal, gas and oil-burning power plants this decade as states seek to transition away from fossil fuels. PJM has already approved an additional 40,000 megawatts of mostly wind, solar and batteries as partial replacements. But many of those projects have been stalled by local opposition or trouble getting vital equipment like transformers.
"We have a huge concern about that," Mr. Seiler said. "Folks aren't building."
Nationwide, just 251 miles of high-voltage transmission lines were completed last year, a number that has been declining for a decade.
So far, one state that has kept pace with explosive demand is Texas, where electricity use has risen 29 percent over the past decade, partly driven by things like bitcoin mining, liquefied natural gas terminals and the electrification of oil fields. Texas's streamlined permitting process allows wind, solar and battery projects to get built and connected faster than almost anywhere else, and the state zoomed past California last year to lead the nation in large-scale solar power.
"Texas still has problems, but there's a lot to learn from how the state makes it easier to build clean energy," said Devin Hartman, director of energy and environmental policy at the R Street Institute.
Soaring demand has provoked major fights over the future of natural gas.
In North Carolina, regulators had ordered Duke Energy, the state's biggest utility, to slash its planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions by 70 percent by 2030.
But in January, Duke warned it could miss that target by at least five years under a new plan to build up to five large gas-burning power plants and five smaller versions by 2033, more than previously proposed. Even though Duke is planning a major expansion of solar and offshore wind power, the company says it needs additional gas plants because demand from industrial customers is rising faster than expected.
"The growth we're seeing is historic in scale and speed," said Kendal Bowman, president of Duke Energy's operations in North Carolina. "But it's also going to be a challenge, particularly in the near term, to see carbon reduction at the same time we've got this unprecedented growth."
Similar revisions are occurring elsewhere. In Virginia, Dominion Energy has proposed to meet rising demand for data centers with a mix of renewables and gas generation in a plan that could increase its overall emissions. Georgia Power has asked permission to build three new gas- and oil-burning turbines and is evaluating whether to postpone the planned retirement of two older coal plants.
"It's completely at odds with what we need to do to" to fight climate change, said Greg Buppert, a senior attorney at the Southern Environmental Law Center, which has identified at least 33,000 megawatts worth of gas projects being proposed by utilities across the Southeast, plants that could stick around burning fossil fuels for decades.
In interviews, utility executives say gas is needed to back up wind and solar power, which don't run all the time. Gas plants can sometimes be easier to build than renewables, since they may not require new long-distance transmission lines. Eventually, alternative sources of clean power may emerge (both Duke and Dominion want to build smaller nuclear reactors) but those are years away.
"We need to meet our customers' needs at all times, even when renewable resources might not be providing energy," said Aaron Mitchell, vice president of planning and pricing at Georgia Power. "It's going to take a diversified fleet."
Mr. Mitchell noted that Georgia Power was planning a large build-out of solar power and batteries over the next decade and would offer incentives to companies to use less power during times of grid stress. But, he added, "gas has to be a near-term part of our fleet."
Critics say that regulated utilities often default to building gas plants because it's a familiar technology and because, in many states, they earn a guaranteed profit from capital projects. They don't always have the same incentive to adopt energy-efficiency programs that reduce sales or to plan transmission lines that can import cheaper wind power from elsewhere.
"The big utilities are typically most comfortable with one way of doing things: building those big, conventional power plants," said Heather O'Neill, president of Advanced Energy United, a trade group representing low-carbon technology companies.
There are other ways to meet rising demand that require burning fewer fossil fuels, some experts say. Utilities could get more creative about helping customers use less electricity during peak hours or make better use of batteries, reducing strains on the grid. Advanced sensors and other technologies could push more renewable energy through existing transmission lines. Some utilities are pursuing these options, but many are not.
Over the coming months, environmentalists and other groups aim to challenge utility plans at state regulatory proceedings. In some cases, they'll argue that the utility has overestimated future demand growth or neglected alternatives to gas. While these debates can get technical, they could have a significant impact on the nation's energy future.
The tech companies and manufacturers that are driving up electricity demand could also play a big role. Many firms have pledged to use clean electricity for their operations, and it remains to be seen how hard they actually push power companies to provide it.
"A big question," said Brian Janous, a former vice president of energy at Microsoft who now focuses on ways to clean up the grid, "is how much outside pressure utilities and state regulators will face to do things differently."
#6
The war in Ukraine is setting into motion the first global energy crisis of its kind, and nations around the world should respond by reducing their use of oil and gas, the leader of a key international organization warned on Friday.
The International Energy Agency, which was formed in the wake of the 1973 oil crisis to ensure a stable worldwide energy market, said that the repercussions of Russia's invasion of Ukraine were likely to intensify over the next several months as summer driving season got underway with inventories at historic lows.
"Reducing demand is a way of addressing the situation without just pumping more oil," said Fatih Birol, the agency's executive director.
It's a message that has largely been absent from the conversation in the United States, the world's largest oil producer, where fossil fuel companies are earning healthy profits and the response to elevated gasoline prices has been calls for more production.
Dr. Birol said that the energy crunch was likely to intensify and that it differed from the 1973 oil shortage because it involves not just oil but natural gas - which affects transportation and electricity - and because countries are more interconnected now, with the result that a disturbance in one supply can have a greater impact on global markets.
On Friday, the agency recommended 10 immediate steps that nations could take to conserve oil, such as reducing speed limits, having people work from home up to three days a week and urging travelers to take trains instead of airplanes when possible. The recommended measures also include car-free Sundays in cities, car pooling and reducing fares on public transportation.
If advanced economies put all 10 recommendations into action, they could cut oil demand by 2.7 million barrels a day, the agency found. That's on par with the estimated 2.5 million barrels a day of Russian oil that is expected to be lost to global markets in the next few months as buyers shun it. The agency also urged a series of structural, longer-term changes, including electric heat pumps and prioritizing of electric vehicles.
In the European Union, which in recent years has gotten about 40 percent of its natural gas and more than a quarter of its crude oil from Russia, leaders have been encouraging citizens to conserve energy. "Everyone can do something," Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Union's executive arm, said in a news conference last week. "Reducing the energy consumption we have overall, the individual contribution by 450 million Europeans, makes a big chunk."
In the United States, one of the few calls for conservation has come from Mitch Roth, the mayor of the County of Hawaii, which is particularly vulnerable to skyrocketing energy prices in the wake of President Biden's banning of Russian oil, gas and coal. The state of Hawaii has relied heavily on Russian fuel, and its high cost of living has many families already struggling to pay their bills. So Mr. Roth turned to what he saw as a common sense solution: asking his community to use less oil and gas.
"We're not mandating anything," said Mr. Roth, who has jurisdiction over the island of Hawaii, known as the Big Island. "But for the betterment of your checkbook, for the betterment of our community, for the betterment of our country and for the betterment of our world, it makes a lot of sense."
Mr. Biden has urged oil companies to step up production to keep up with demand, and his energy secretary, Jennifer Granholm, delivered the message personally to fossil fuel executives gathered in Houston last week.
In the long term, administration officials maintain, the United States must make a transition away from fossil fuels and develop more solar, wind and other clean energy sources.
"We know we cannot drill our way out of dependence on a global commodity controlled in part by foreign nations and their leaders, which is why the administration is determined to speed up - not slow down - our transition to a clean energy future," said Charisma Troiano, a spokeswoman for Ms. Granholm.
Clean energy is the ultimate solution to tackling global warming and reducing energy dependency on other countries, many experts say. But it can't come online fast enough to meet immediate demand. To make matters worse, countries were already far behind on the emissions reductions needed to meet the Paris Agreement, a global pledge intended to avoid the worst effects of climate change.
While Western nations try to deal with the humanitarian crisis and the energy problems resulting from the war in Ukraine, "we should not forget a third crisis, which is the climate crisis," Dr. Birol of the International Energy Agency said. "And as a result, all of the 10 measures we put on the table not only address the crude oil market tightness, but also help to pave the way to reach our climate goals."
A White House spokesman declined to comment about whether Mr. Biden planned to call on Americans to conserve energy, something perceived as carrying political risks.
A handful of Democrats in Congress have mentioned conservation. "We need to talk about lowering demand," said Representative Kathy Castor, Democrat of Florida. "If we lower demand, that really saps the power of these petro despots to control our lives."
Kathleen Sgamma, president of the Western Energy Alliance, which represents oil and gas companies, associated conserving energy with deprivation.
"I mean, we never want people to be wasteful with energy," she said in an interview. "But do you want to tell the American people that they can't drive to school and work and not heat their homes? I mean, everything on your table is the result of oil and natural gas."
Administration officials maintain that in the long term, the U.S. must make a transition away from fossil fuels and develop more solar, wind, and other clean energy sources.Credit...Brandon Bell/Getty Images
Mr. Biden would face a certain backlash if he called for Americans to conserve energy - particularly as the country is emerging from the coronavirus pandemic, said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion.
"People are becoming turned off to the whole notion of masks, so the message of personal sacrifice - having to alter their behavior in some way - gets into a freedom discussion that the White House doesn't want to go near right now," Dr. Miringoff said.
With midterm elections looming and Republicans already using high gas prices to attack Mr. Biden's policies, Dr. Miringoff said asking Americans to conserve energy was not a winning strategy.
The November election carries high stakes for Mr. Biden's climate agenda. Republicans have shown little appetite for tackling global warming. If they win control of one or both houses of Congress, the chances would drop considerably for enacting policies to cut greenhouse gases that are dangerously warming the planet.
For many Democrats, the 1980 presidential election is seen as a cautionary tale. President Jimmy Carter, who famously wore a sweater and asked Americans to follow his lead and turn down their thermostats in response to energy shortages in the 1970s, got clobbered in his race for a second term. The Senate also flipped to Republican control.
"That sent a jolt into the political system that we have not fully recovered from," said Jay Hakes, who ran the U.S. Energy Information Administration under President Bill Clinton and directed the Jimmy Carter Presidential Library. "Of course, Biden was there at the time."
But such fears remove the important tool of energy conservation, Dr. Hakes added, recalling public service ads from the 1970s that encouraged Americans to drive at 50 or 55 miles per hour and keep their thermostats at 68 degrees. The tagline was "Don't be fuelish."
Half a century later, the world has a "brief and rapidly closing window of opportunity to secure a livable and sustainable future for all," scientists wrote in the latest major report from the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The report, by ??270 researchers from 67 countries, warned that climate change is harming the planet faster than humans can adapt.
"Everybody talks about emissions reduction, but if the production of fossil fuels is constant, then you wonder where these emissions reductions come from," said Hans-Otto Pörtner, a physiologist and one of the report's co-chairs.
Dr. Pörtner spoke from his home in northern Germany, wearing a sweater and a jacket because his wife had lowered the temperature to save energy. Such measures are "low-hanging fruit," Dr. Pörtner said.
He said he hoped policymakers would use the Russian invasion as an impetus to speed up the transition to clean energy.
"If we forget the existential threats involved with climate change, then we are really in trouble," Dr. Pörtner said.
#7
Global power is fractured. Temperatures have risen to record levels. Bitterness and anxiety are rising in vulnerable countries lashed by deadly heat and floods.
This week, as presidents and prime ministers assemble at the United Nations General Assembly, they confront a vastly different world from the one that existed nearly 10 years ago, when nations rich and poor found a way to rally together around a remarkable global pact.
In that agreement, the 2015 Paris accord, they promised to act and acknowledged a bare truth: Climate change threatens all of us, and we owe it to each other to slow it down. Countries agreed to nudge each other to raise their climate ambitions every few years, and the industrialized nations of the world - which had prospered from the burning of coal, oil and gas - said they would help the rest of the world prosper without burning down the planet.
Turns out, geopolitics can be as unpredictable as the weather.
Three big things have shifted since the climate accord that, together, have sunk the prospects of global climate cooperation to a low point. China has raced ahead of every other country, including the United States, to dominate the global clean-energy supply chain, fueling serious economic and political strains that undermine incentives to cooperate. Rich countries have failed to keep their financial promises to help poor countries shift away from fossil fuels. A widening gyre of war - from Ukraine to Gaza and now, in Lebanon - has become an impediment to global climate consensus.
"Major emitting countries are much less likely to work cooperatively on climate due to geopolitical tensions and concerns about supply-chain security than they were in 2015," said Kelly Sims Gallagher, a former White House adviser who is now dean of The Fletcher School at Tufts University.
Then there's the biggest, most consequential uncertainty of all: the coming U.S. elections.
China is the world's largest producer of solar panels. Also wind turbines. Also batteries for electric vehicles. It manufactures more electric cars, buses and motorcycles than any other country.
It also processes the vast majority of the world's cobalt and lithium, essential components in the batteries that will help electrify everything from trucks to factories to advanced weaponry.
In short, it holds the keys to the treasure chest of the renewable-energy transition, even as, paradoxically, it burns more coal than any other country. That makes China the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases at the moment, while the United States is the biggest emitter in history.
China's dominance of clean-energy goods has sparked a protectionist backlash few would have expected when the Paris accord was signed in 2015 - with the U.S. and China as two of its most important backers. Today, however, Western countries, fearing that they will fall even farther behind, have imposed nearly insurmountable tariffs on China's electric vehicles. And they have sought to eliminate Chinese-processed metals from their own factories.
That has added a new stumbling block to climate diplomacy between the world's biggest emitters. It's not helped by rising tensions between Washington and Beijing. The two sides are still talking, but they're not agreeing on much. The global energy transition is getting bogged down as they quarrel.
"There's no question that geopolitics are more challenging than they were when the Paris Agreement was struck," said Ani Dasgupta, president of the World Resources Institute.
But he took pains to note that many countries continue to push the world's powerful to come together, and with some success. "The biggest change, and a welcome one, we have seen since Paris is the rise of climate leadership from the Global South," he said, referring to low-income nations that often feel disproportionate effects from global warming.
The Money Problem
Money has bedeviled climate diplomacy for decades. There has been intense disagreement over who should pay, and how much.
A handful of countries - the United States, most of Europe, Canada, Australia and Japan - are responsible for most of the greenhouse gas emissions that have caused the planet to heat up over the past century. But each of those countries, in their own way, argues that they alone can't foot the bill for a global fix.
They also argue that China in particular, now the world's second biggest economy and its biggest polluter, should also pony up money to aid low-income countries.
The one explicit acknowledgment of this obligation has been the creation of a formal Loss and Damage Fund to help poor countries cope with climate disasters made worse by the greenhouse gases emitted by wealthy nations. A little over $700 million has been pledged, a drop in the bucket of what it costs even one country to recover from one climate disaster. (The European Commission allocated $10 billion this week to help Central European countries respond to the latest floods.)
Recently, a few courts have begun to take up cases that strive to penalize the industry or require fossil fuel companies to help pay the cost of fighting climate change. But even if the plaintiffs were to prevail, any decisions would likely be years in the future.
Meanwhile, the costs of climate change have piled up for low-income countries, many of which are also heavily indebted. On average, African nations are losing 5 percent of their economies because of floods, droughts and heat, according to the World Meteorological Organization. Many are spending up to a 10th of their budgets managing extreme weather disasters.
"For developing nations, especially those on the front lines of climate disasters, this is not just an injustice, it's a betrayal of trust and humanity," said Harjeet Singh, global engagement director at an activist group called the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative.
With War, Shifting Alliances
The Russian invasion of Ukraine has lifted energy security to the top of the agenda for big world powers. That has both strengthened the argument to shift to renewable energy - but also shifted the focus of many world leaders from emphasizing a transition away from oil and gas to making sure they have enough of it for their energy needs.
It has also buoyed the fortunes of oil and gas producers worldwide. At the same time, food and fuel costs have risen worldwide, and with it, hunger.
If the war in Ukraine scrambled the economics of the energy transition, then the war in Gaza scrambled its politics, driving up distrust and realigning geopolitical allegiances. Western hegemony over global trade, including of fossil fuels, has faded.
Both China and India, as well as Turkey and Iran, two sets of rivals, have made deft energy deals with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, allowing Russian oil and gas to enjoy new markets as Europe weans itself from Russian energy. The United States has, in turn, sought to counter that new dynamic by exporting more of its own oil and gas than ever.
This week at the United Nations, there are likely to be some pointed reminders to world leaders, particularly from the 20 largest economies, known as the G20, to rally around climate action.
The United Nations' top climate official, Simon Stiell, whose grandmother's home on the Caribbean island of Grenada was destroyed by Hurricane Beryl earlier this year, said as much in a recent speech. "It would be entirely incorrect for any world leader, especially in the G20, to think, 'Although this is all incredibly sad, ultimately it's not my problem,'" he said.
The wildest wild card in all of this is what happens in November, when Americans go to the polls.
In his first term as president, Donald Trump pulled the United States out of the global climate accord. Should he return to the White House, he has promised to do so again.
As Tim Benton, a fellow at Chatham House, a London-based research organization, wrote recently, "a new Trump administration promises only - directly and indirectly - to frustrate ambitious, effective climate policies in the U.S. and abroad."
#8
The U.S. electric grid is often described as a vast, synchronized machine - a network of wires carrying electricity from power plants across the country into our homes.
But, in reality, there is no single U.S. grid. There are three - one in the West, one in the East and one in Texas - that only connect at a few points and share little power between them.
Those grids are further divided into a patchwork of operators with competing interests. That makes it hard to build the long-distance power lines needed to transport wind and solar nationwide.
Three maps show how the U.S. electric grid works today. The first one shows all the power lines across the United States. The second map shows how those lines are physically broken up into three grids - the Western, Eastern and Texas Interconnections - with only a few ties between them. The last map shows how those three regions are further divided into dozens of regional operators and local utilities.
America's fragmented electric grid, which was largely built to accommodate coal and gas plants, is becoming a major obstacle to efforts to fight climate change.
Tapping into the nation's vast supplies of wind and solar energy would be one of the cheapest ways to cut the emissions that are dangerously heating the planet, studies have found. That would mean building thousands of wind turbines across the gusty Great Plains and acres of solar arrays across the South, creating clean, low-cost electricity to power homes, vehicles and factories.
But many spots with the best sun and wind are far from cities and the existing grid. To make the plan work, the nation would need thousands of miles of new high-voltage transmission lines - large power lines that would span multiple grid regions.
To understand the scale of what's needed, compare today's renewable energy and transmission system to one estimate of what it would take to reach the Biden administration's goal of 100 percent clean electricity generation by 2035. Transmission capacity would need to more than double in just over a decade:
Two maps showing renewable energy projects and transmission capacity across the United States. One shows the status in 2020 and the other shows a future modeled scenario for 2035. The second map has much more renewable energy and more than two times as much transmission capacity between regions.
Source: National Renewable Energy Laboratory | The 2035 map is based on the "All Options" path from NREL's 100% Clean Electricity by 2035 Study. Both maps show utility-scale renewable projects, but do not include distributed installations, like rooftop solar.
There are enormous challenges to building that much transmission, including convoluted permitting processes and potential opposition from local communities. But the problems start with planning - or rather, a lack of planning.
There is no single entity in charge of organizing the grid, the way the federal government oversaw the development of the Interstate Highway System in the 1950s and '60s. The electric system was cobbled together over a century by thousands of independent utilities building smaller-scale grids to carry power from large coal, nuclear or gas plants to nearby customers.
By contrast, the kinds of longer-distance transmission lines that would transport wind and solar from remote rural areas often require the approval of multiple regional authorities, who often disagree over whether the lines are needed or who should pay for them.
"It's very different from how we do other types of national infrastructure," said Michael Goggin, vice president at Grid Strategies, a consulting group. "Highways, gas, pipelines - all that is paid for and permitted at the federal level primarily."
In recent decades, the country has hardly built any major high-voltage power lines that connect different grid regions. While utilities and grid operators now spend roughly $25 billion per year on transmission, much of that consists of local upgrades instead of long-distance lines that could import cheaper, cleaner power from farther away.
"Utilities plan for local needs and build lines without thinking of the bigger picture," said Christy Walsh, an attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council.
An explosion in proposed clean energy ventures has overwhelmed the system for connecting new power sources to homes and businesses.
Study after study has found that broader grid upgrades would be hugely beneficial. A recent draft analysis by the Department of Energy found "a pressing need for additional electric transmission" - especially between different regions.
The climate stakes are high. Last year, Congress approved hundreds of billions of dollars for solar panels, wind turbines, electric vehicles and other technologies to tackle global warming. But if the United States can't build new transmission at a faster pace, roughly 80 percent of the emissions reductions expected from that bill might not happen, researchers at the Princeton-led REPEAT Project found.
Already, a lack of transmission capacity means that thousands of proposed wind and solar projects are facing multiyear delays and rising costs to connect to the grid. In many parts of the country, existing power lines are often so clogged that they can't deliver electricity from wind and solar projects to where it is needed most and demand is often met by more expensive fossil fuel plants closer to homes and businesses. This problem, known as congestion, costs the country billions of dollars per year and has been getting worse.
The dearth of long-distance transmission isn't just a climate problem, said Mathias Einberger, a manager for RMI's Carbon-Free Electricity Program. It spells trouble for reliability, too.
Many power operators are increasingly struggling to keep the lights on as demand rises and extreme weather events become more frequent and severe. More capacity to transfer power between regions could help, so that if a storm knocked out power plants in one area, its neighbors could send electricity. Texas, for example, could have suffered fewer blackouts during a deadly winter storm in 2021 if its isolated grid had more connections with the Southeast, one analysis found.
There are a few efforts underway to ease the bottlenecks. The Biden administration has billions of dollars to help fund transmission projects, and Congress has given the federal government new authority to override objections from state regulators for certain power lines deemed to be in the national interest.
"There's no silver bullet," said Maria Robinson, the director of the Department of Energy's newly created Grid Deployment Office. "Every transmission project is unique like a fingerprint, facing its own challenges, so we need a large arsenal of tools to try to move things along."
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, an independent agency that regulates interstate transmission of electricity, gas and oil, is exploring ways to encourage grid operators to do more long-term planning and to strengthen ties between regions. Some lawmakers have proposed bills that would give the commission more power to approve the routes of major new lines that pass through multiple states, the way it does with gas pipelines.
But these efforts still face plenty of resistance. Utilities are sometimes wary of long-distance transmission lines that might undercut their local monopolies. Some Republicans in Congress say giving the federal government more authority over transmission would trample on states' rights. During the debt ceiling debate, Democrats floated a proposal to mandate more connectivity between different grid regions, a provision that was opposed by some utilities and Republicans, and was eventually dropped.
If the country continues to struggle to build long-distance transmission, it might need to opt for more expensive measures to fight climate change instead, a recent study by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory found. That could mean building more advanced nuclear plants or gas plants that capture their emissions, which could in theory be built closer to population centers.
Getting better at managing how and when we use electricity could also relieve some of the pressure on the grid. For example, utilities could provide incentives for people to charge their electric cars and other devices when demand is low or ask them to turn off unnecessary appliances during extreme weather events.
But even that wouldn't entirely cancel out the need for a lot more transmission.
"The grid is already a critical element of our energy system," said Matteo Muratori, an analyst at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. "But it's going to become the central piece of the future energy system."
#9
The furnace, heated to 1,500 degrees Celsius, was glowing red. Workers at the Arc International glass factory loaded it with sand that slowly pooled into a molten mass. Nearby on the factory floor, machines transformed the shapeless liquid with a blast of hot air into thousands of delicate wine glasses, destined for sale to restaurants and homes worldwide.
Nicholas Hodler, the chief executive, surveyed the assembly line, shimmering blue with natural gas flames. For years, Arc had been powered by cheap energy that helped turn the company into the world's largest producer of glass tableware - and a vital employer in this working-class region of northern France.
But the impact of Russia's abrupt cutoff of gas to Europe has doused the business with new risks. Energy prices have climbed so fast that Mr. Hodler has had to rewrite business forecasts six times in two months. Recently, he put a third of Arc's 4,500 employees on partial furlough to save money. Four of the factory's nine furnaces will be idled; the others will be switched from natural gas to diesel, a cheaper but more polluting fuel.
"It's the most dramatic situation we have ever encountered," Mr. Hodler said, shouting to be heard over the din of clinking glasses. "For energy-intensive businesses like ours, it's crippling."
Arc is not alone. High energy prices are lashing European industry, forcing factories to cut production quickly and put tens of thousands of employees on furlough. The cutbacks, though expected to be temporary, are raising the risks of a painful recession in Europe. Industrial production in the euro area fell 2.3 percent in July from a year earlier, the biggest drop in more than two years.
Makers of metal, paper, fertilizer and other products that depend on gas and electricity to transform raw materials into products from car doors to cardboard boxes have announced belt-tightening. Half of Europe's aluminum and zinc production has been taken offline, according to Eurometaux, Europe's metals trade association.
Among them is Arcelor Mittal, Europe's largest steel maker, which is idling blast furnaces in Germany. Alcoa, a global aluminum products producer, is cutting a third of production at its smelter in Norway. In the Netherlands, Nyrstar, the world's biggest zinc producer, is pausing output until further notice.
Even toilet paper is not immune: In Germany, Hakle, one of the largest manufacturers, announced that it had tumbled into insolvency because of a "historic energy crisis."
The whirlwind has unnerved the inhabitants of Arques, a town whose fortunes have been tied to glassmaking for more than a century. The modern-day Arc was founded in 1825 as the Verrerie Cristallerie d'Arques, then a small local maker of fine crystal goblets.
Today, Arc's operations are enormous, spanning an area nearly half the size of New York's Central Park. Its mass is such that Arc indirectly generates another 15,000 or so jobs in the region, from cardboard factories that package its glass to transport companies ferrying its products. Arc's other factories are in China, Dubai and New Jersey.
"The shutdown of the furnaces is bad news," said one worker, a 28-year veteran of the factory, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of compromising his job. "Sure, high energy prices are having an impact," he added, "but it's scary how fast it's happening."
To some extent, the crisis is a blowback from European sanctions that were intended to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine. The pain has undermined confidence at European companies and their ability to plan.
This past week, the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, proposed offsetting the hit by capping revenue from low-cost electricity generators and forcing fossil fuel firms to share the profit they make from soaring energy prices.
But the solutions may not be fast enough. Costs have already soared beyond what many manufacturers can afford. Thousands of European companies are near the end of fixed energy contracts signed when prices were cheaper, and must renew them in October at current prices. Year-ahead electricity prices, which are tied to the cost of gas, are around 1,000 euros per megawatt-hour in Germany and France, while natural gas is at record highs of around €230 per megawatt-hour.
Eschenbach Porcelain survived Germany's transition from communism to capitalism after 1989. But when its energy contracts run out at the end of this year, the company will face annual energy bills of €5.5 million, or roughly six times what it is paying now, said Rolf Frowein, its director.
"That would mean we have to more than double our prices, and nobody will pay that for our cups and plates," he said. Eschenbach, a 130-year-old company in the eastern state of Thuringia, is in talks with local politicians about a potential solution. It is one of dozens of small and midsize firms in Germany fearing they will have to close for good.
An hour north of the Arc factory, Aluminium Dunkerque, France's biggest aluminum producer, will furlough part of its 620-person work force and cut production by more than 20 percent as it faces a potential fourfold jump in its energy costs.
 "The time we spend dealing with energy issues been multiplied by 10," said Guillaume de Goÿs, the chief executive. "We hope the crisis will be short-lived, but if it lasts, European industry will be in very big trouble."
Mr. Hodler is laboring to steer Arc away from trouble, after years of financial difficulties linked to overexpansion and, more recently, pandemic lockdowns. In December, shortly after Mr. Hodler took over in a management shake-up, Arc received an emergency €45 million loan backed by the French state and is now asking the government for additional relief from high energy bills.
The site, which consumes as much energy as 200,000 homes, makes "arts de table," including Luminarc dinner plates and Cristal d'Arques-branded table and barware. All told, Arc produces four million glasses a day, as well as items like candle holders for Bath & Body Works and promotional glasses for Heineken and McDonald's.
Doing so requires intense heat to melt sand into glass in furnaces that must stay lit 24 hours a day. In summer, Europe's power crunch propelled Arc's energy bill to $75 million, from 19 million euros a year ago. On top of that, consumers suddenly stopped buying items like candleholders and washing machines, for which Arc makes glass windows, sending orders plunging.
"People are worried about their winter energy bills, and are saying, 'I'll wait to buy that nonessential item,'" Mr. Hodler said.
The double-whammy sent Arc's management team scrambling for solutions - all of them less than desirable.
This month, 1,600 workers were asked to stay home two days a week to cut costs. And for the first time, Arc's furnaces will switch to diesel power instead of natural gas, which is fed directly to the factory through a pipeline. The diesel will raise Arc's carbon footprint by 30 percent, and must be delivered in huge quantities by tanker trucks.
Even more daunting was the prospect of idling Arcs furnaces. "You can't just shut down a glass furnace - it would destroy it," Mr. Hodler said. "If they are powered down gently, they will survive, but then they take more than one month to be reheated."
To cut costs, Arc asked 1,600 workers to stay home two days a week.Credit...Andrea Mantovani for The New York Times
Two furnaces that were planned for scheduled maintenance may now remain offline for the foreseeable future, Mr. Hodler said. Another two will be temporarily mothballed to make up for the fall in demand.
"We don't want to stop operations completely," Mr. Hodler said. "But we are not going to produce if we lose money."
All of which has locals in Arques very worried. At Le Cristal, a cafe that is a hangout for Arc factory workers, the fate of the furnaces was all anybody talked about on a recent afternoon.
"Arc is the lifeblood of this region," said Valerie Harle, the owner of the cafe, which opened in 1939 and is named in honor of Georges Durand, who built the Cristallerie d'Arques from a small-time factory into an empire. "If the furnaces don't work, neither do the employees."
Veronique Cognoti, a longtime resident, said locals were bracing for a domino effect. "A lot of other businesses depend on it," she said of the factory. "Transport companies, cardboard box makers - they will all feel the blow."
At a nearby table, a man who spoke on the condition of anonymity said he was furloughed this month from his job at a nearby cardboard factory that makes boxes and packaging for Arc, after the glassmaker cut production.
"With the price of energy as it is, the factory isn't working as much as it used to, and it is already creating a chain reaction," he said.
He was being paid 80 percent of his salary to stay home while his factory was idled, but that had added up to €130 in lost pay. At the same time, he said, the gasoline bill to fill his small car had jumped to nearly €100, from about €50 at the beginning of the year.
"This is going to become a much bigger problem," he said.
#10
Worldwide, growth in renewable power capacity is set to double by 2027, adding as much renewable power in the next five years as it did in the past two decades, the International Energy Agency said Tuesday.
Renewables are poised to overtake coal as the largest source of electricity generation by early 2025, the report found, a pattern driven in large part by the global energy crisis linked to the war in Ukraine.
"This is a clear example of how the current energy crisis can be a historic turning point toward a cleaner and more secure energy system," said Fatih Birol, the I.E.A. executive director, in a news release.
The expansion of renewable power in the next five years will happen much faster than what the agency forecast just a year ago in its last annual report, said Heymi Bahar, a senior analyst at the I.E.A. and one of the lead authors of the report. The report revised last year's forecast of renewable growth upward by 30 percent after the introduction of new policies by some of the world's largest emitters, like the European Union, the United States and China.
While there has been a wartime resurgence in fossil fuel consumption as European countries have scrambled to replace gas from Russia after its invasion of Ukraine in February, the effects are likely to be short-lived, the agency said.
Instead, over the next five years, the global energy crisis is expected to accelerate renewable energy growth as countries embrace low-emissions technology in response to soaring fossil fuel prices, including wind turbines, solar panels, nuclear power plants, hydrogen fuels, electric vehicles and electric heat pumps. Heating and cooling buildings with renewable power is one of the sectors that needs to see larger improvement, the report said.
The United States passed the Inflation Reduction Act this year, a landmark climate and tax law that, among many investments to reduce planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions, made an "unforeseen" expansion in long-term tax credits for solar and wind projects extending through 2032, Mr. Bahar said. Previously, these tax credits had been revised a few years at a time. Extending the credits until 2032 provides better certainty for investors, which is important in the energy industry, Mr. Bahar said.
China alone is forecast to install almost half of the new global renewable power capacity over the next five years, based on targets set in the country's new five-year plan. Even still, the country is accelerating coal mining and production at coal-burning power plants.
The recent momentum in renewable energy growth is not enough to help the world limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) compared to preindustrial levels, said Doug Vine, director of energy analysis at the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. The goal was set by the landmark Paris climate agreement in 2015; beyond that threshold, scientists say the risk of climate catastrophe, including deadly heat waves and coastal flooding, increases significantly.
Scientists have calculated that meeting the 1.5 degrees Celsius goal would require countries to curb or offset all carbon dioxide emissions by 2050. "We are still not there," Mr. Bahar said, but the agency's new report indicates that narrowing the gap is "within the reach of government policies and actions."
The main obstacles in wealthy countries are lengthy permitting procedures and lack of improvements and expansion to grid infrastructure, the report said. Some European countries have made progress on that front, including Germany, which has reduced permitting timelines, and Spain, which has streamlined permitting and increased grid capacity for renewable energy projects.
For low-income countries, the report said, the challenge is both weak grid infrastructure and the lack of access to affordable financing for renewable projects, which require higher upfront costs for capital than they do for maintenance and operation. High interest rates on loans are often a barrier for many lower-income countries that are the most vulnerable yet least responsible for climate change.
At last month's United Nations climate conference in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, many global leaders made calls to overhaul two powerful financial institutions, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which represent a global financial system that the leaders say disadvantages poorer countries. If implemented, supporters say, the reforms could offer struggling countries lower interest rates and enable financial institutions to attract trillions of dollars in private capital to help those countries transition to renewable energy.
#11
As the world reels from spikes in oil and gas prices, the fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine has laid bare a dilemma: Nations remain extraordinarily dependent on fossil fuels and are struggling to shore up supplies precisely at a moment when scientists say the world must slash its use of oil, gas and coal to avert irrevocable damage to the planet.
While countries could greatly reduce their vulnerability to wild swings in the oil and gas markets by shifting to cleaner sources of energy such as wind or solar power and electric vehicles - which is also the playbook for fighting climate change - that transition will take years.
So, for now, many governments are more urgently focused on alleviating near-term energy shocks, aiming to boost global oil production to replace the millions of barrels per day that Russia has historically exported but which is now being shunned by Western nations.
The two goals aren't necessarily at odds, officials in the United States and Europe say.
Yet some fear that countries could become so consumed by the immediate energy crisis that they neglect longer-term policies to cut reliance on fossil fuels - a shortsightedness that could set the world up for more oil and gas shocks in the future as well as a dangerously overheated planet.
"In the short term we have to try to prevent this crisis from creating an economic catastrophe," said Sarah Ladislaw, a managing director at RMI, a nonprofit that works on clean energy issues. "But there are also longer-term steps we need to take to reduce our underlying energy vulnerabilities." Otherwise, she said, "we'll end up right back in this situation several years down the road."
Oil prices were already high even before war broke out in Ukraine, as the global economy rebounded from the pandemic and demand outstripped supply. But Russia's invasion in late February caused the price of crude to skyrocket, approaching $130 per barrel this week. On Tuesday President Biden said the United States would ban oil imports from Russia, which before the war produced one out of every 10 barrels of oil the world consumed, a move that further roiled markets.
"The decision today is not without cost here at home. Putin's war is already hurting American families at the gas pump," Mr. Biden said.
Administration officials, who have often clashed with domestic oil and gas producers over Mr. Biden's climate change policies, took a different tone on Wednesday and asked the industry for help. The move came as gasoline prices averaged $4.25 per gallon nationwide, the highest levels since 2012 after adjusting for inflation.
"We are on a war footing, an emergency, and we have to responsibly increase short-term supply where we can right now to stabilize the market and to minimize harm to American families," Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm told oil and gas executives on Wednesday at an industry conference in Houston. "That means you producing more right now, where and if you can."
Ms. Granholm said that ramping up oil and gas production in the short term would not mean abandoning the administration's goal of moving away from fossil fuels in order to fight global warming. Mr. Biden has vowed to slash America's greenhouse gas emissions at least 50 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.
"Yes, right now, we need oil and gas production to rise to meet current demand," Ms. Granholm said. But, she added, "we're serious about decarbonizing while providing reliable energy that doesn't depend on foreign adversaries."
Oil use in industrialized countries dropped between 2005 and 2012, the last time prices were high, but consumption has flatlined since, save for a dip during the pandemic.
It remains uncertain how much the United States will actually do to curb its dependence on fossil fuels in the years ahead. In its most recent annual outlook, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said that oil and gas were expected to remain the nation's leading energy sources through 2050 without a major shift in policy. That is the same year by which, scientists say, nations need to largely eliminate fossil fuel emissions if they want to prevent the most catastrophic effects of global warming.
The administration's main legislative proposal for speeding up the transition to cleaner energy, the Build Back Better Act, remains in limbo. That bill includes $555 billion in spending to deploy low-carbon technologies like wind, solar, geothermal and nuclear power. Buyers of electric vehicles would receive up to $12,500 in tax credits. The bill also has billions of dollars to make buildings more energy efficient and replace gas-powered furnaces with electric versions.
In theory, those measures could go a long way toward shrinking America's reliance on oil and gas, though they would take time to work. A recent analysis by the think tank Energy Innovation estimated that the bill's electric vehicle provisions could cut U.S. oil consumption by 180 million barrels per year by 2030, more than double what the nation imported from Russia last year. Other provisions to clean up power plants, buildings and industry could cut U.S. natural gas use by 4.7 trillion cubic feet per year by 2030, equivalent to 85 percent of what Europe imported from Russia last year.
But the legislation is stalled in the evenly divided Senate. No Republicans support it, and Senator Joe Manchin III, a key Democratic swing vote, has said he opposes the current version.
Some oil and gas executives in Houston this week said that while they acknowledge the need to tackle climate change, that effort should take a back seat to the more urgent need to increase fossil fuel production and avoid economic disruption.
"Since the consequences of climate are going to be 30 or 40 years down the road, people are going to focus a lot more on what is happening now. As they should," said Charif Souki, chairman of Tellurian Inc, a developer of liquefied natural gas projects. "We can come back to climate."
The consensus among scientists is that the dangers of climate change are already apparent now and affecting every corner of the planet, from destructive storms to fatal heat waves to record drought.
At the same time, oil executives also conceded that they may face limits to how much additional oil and gas they can produce in the short term. U.S. oil production is already nearly back to prepandemic levels, just below 12 million barrels per day. The Energy Information Administration predicted on Tuesday that output could rise to 13 million barrels per day by 2023.
"Nobody really anticipated needing to grow significantly," Vicki Hollub, chief executive of Occidental Petroleum said during a panel discussion at the conference. "That's the challenge now. If you didn't plan for growth, you're not going to be able to achieve growth today."
Ms. Hollub said supply chain constraints were hampering the ability for U.S. oil and gas producers to rapidly increase production, and that labor shortages were making it difficult to find qualified workers. At the same time, investors burned by previous price crashes have demanded that companies focus more on returning cash to shareholders instead of investing in growth.
Europe faces an even bigger challenge. Since 2010, the continent has made major investments in renewable energy and efficiency measures that have helped reduce its consumption of natural gas. But domestic production of gas has declined even faster, which means that it is increasingly reliant on exports from places like Russia, which supplies nearly 40 percent of the gas that Europeans use for heat and electricity.
On Tuesday, the European Union outlined a proposal to cut Russian gas imports by two-thirds this year. In the short term, the plan envisions that Europe would secure liquefied natural gas supplies shipped from elsewhere around the world. Further out, it would require speeding up deployment of cleaner alternatives, such as wind and solar power, implementing energy efficiency measures, and accelerating production of green hydrogen to power heavy industry instead of gas.
But Nikos Tsafos, an energy expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said that there are major questions as to how quickly Europe can get off Russian gas. For one, the continent's domestic gas fields are steadily declining, which means there is more to replace each year. And importing more liquefied natural gas from abroad might mean rerouting shipments from places such as Pakistan, Thailand or Bangladesh, forcing those countries to adjust.
Europe also faces tensions between short-term energy security needs and its overarching climate goals, officials said.
Frans Timmermans, vice president of the European Commission, acknowledged that some countries may need to rely more on coal in the near term as they cut back on natural gas consumption. Coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel, typically produces twice as many heat-trapping carbon dioxide emissions as gas when burned for energy.
"Let me be crystal clear. There is no future in coal," Mr. Timmermans said in a recent interview. But, he said, some E.U. countries are likely to keep burning it longer as a substitute for Russian gas until they can build out enough renewable energy to replace it. "Then we will have to do the math to see what that means for emissions," he said.
John Kerry, President Biden's climate envoy, said that ramping up oil and gas production now to help Europe replace Russian gas is not incompatible with climate goals. "Look, supply is for obvious reasons necessary, it's front and center and it has to be," he said, adding, "We've never seen providing energy security as running against the idea of a transition and getting to net zero by 2050."
Mr. Kerry said that there is still time to curb consumption of fossil fuels despite the short-term push to pump more oil.
"If it's six, seven months now that we're trying to adjust to volatility, we can still move forward," he said. "We're not talking about unabated burning for the next 10 years. That would be absurd and unacceptable."
Russia's invasion of Ukraine in late February came just as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a body of scientists convened by the United Nations, published an exhaustive report finding that the dangers from climate change are bigger and unfolding faster than previously expected and that humanity may struggle to adapt to the consequences unless greenhouse gas emissions are quickly reduced in the next few decades.
"They are two sides of the same coin," John Doerr, a venture capitalist now focused on the energy transition, said in an interview. "We need energy security because we've got an energy crisis. We've also got a climate crisis. The same week that Putin unleashed his army, the I.P.C.C. put out yet another report that mounted even more evidence that we are out of time."
#12
WASHINGTON - The energy crisis sparked by Russia's invasion of Ukraine is likely to speed up rather than slow down the global transition away from fossil fuels and toward cleaner technologies like wind, solar and electric vehicles, the world's leading energy agency said Thursday.
While some countries have been burning more fossil fuels such as coal this year in response to natural gas shortages caused by the war in Ukraine, that effect is expected to be short-lived, the International Energy Agency said in its annual World Energy Outlook, a 524-page report that forecasts global energy trends to 2050.
Instead, for the first time, the agency now predicts that worldwide demand for every type of fossil fuel will peak in the near future.
One major reason is that many countries have responded to soaring prices for fossil fuels this year by embracing wind turbines, solar panels, nuclear power plants, hydrogen fuels, electric vehicles and electric heat pumps. In the United States, Congress approved more than $370 billion in spending for such technologies under the recent Inflation Reduction Act. Japan is pursuing a new "green transformation" program that will help fund nuclear power, hydrogen and other low-emissions technologies. China, India and South Korea have all ratcheted up national targets for renewable and nuclear power.
And yet, the shift toward cleaner sources of energy still isn't happening fast enough to avoid dangerous levels of global warming, the agency said, not unless governments take much stronger action to reduce their planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions over the next few years.
Based on current policies put in place by national governments, global coal use is expected to start declining in the next few years, natural gas demand is likely to hit a plateau by the end of this decade and oil use is projected to level off by the mid-2030s.
Meanwhile, global investment in clean energy is now expected to rise from $1.3 trillion in 2022 to more than $2 trillion annually by 2030, a significant shift, the agency said.
"It's notable that many of these new clean energy targets aren't being put in place solely for climate change reasons," said Fatih Birol, the agency's executive director, in an interview. "Increasingly, the big drivers are energy security as well as industrial policy - a lot of countries want to be at the leading edge of the energy industries of the future."
Assessing Progress
A new United Nations report on past emissions commitments indicates that severe disruption would be hard to avoid on the current trajectory.
Current energy policies put the world on track to reach peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2025 and warm roughly 2.5 degrees Celsius (4.5 degrees Fahrenheit) by 2100 compared with preindustrial levels, the energy agency estimated. That is in line with separate projections released Wednesday by the United Nations, which analyzed nations' stated promises to tackle emissions.
In Paris in 2015, world leaders agreed to try to limit average global warming to around 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) to avoid some of the most dire and irreversible risks from climate change, such as widespread crop failures or ecosystem collapse. That would require much steeper cuts in greenhouse gases, with emissions not just peaking in the next few years but falling nearly in half by the end of this decade, scientists have said. The planet has already warmed an average of about 1.1 degrees Celsius.
With each fraction of a degree of warming, tens of millions more people worldwide would be exposed to life-threatening heat waves, food and water scarcity, and coastal flooding while millions more mammals, insects, birds and plants would disappear.
"If we want to hit those more ambitious climate targets, we'd likely need to see about $4 trillion in clean energy investment by 2030," Dr. Birol said, or double what the agency currently projects. "In particular, there's not nearly enough investment going into the developing world."
This year, global carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels are expected to rise roughly 1 percent and approach record highs, in part because of an uptick in coal use in places like Europe as countries scramble to replace lost Russian gas. (Coal is the most polluting of all fossil fuels.)
Still, that is a far smaller increase than some analysts had feared when war in Ukraine first broke out. The rise in emissions would have been three times as large had it not been for a rapid deployment of wind turbines, solar panels and electric vehicles worldwide, the agency said. Soaring energy prices and weak economic growth in Europe and China also contributed to keep emissions down.
And the recent rise in coal use may prove fleeting. European nations are currently planning to install roughly 50 gigawatts worth of renewable power next year, which would be more than enough to supplant this year's increase in coal generation. And globally, the agency does not expect investment in new coal plants to increase beyond what was already expected.
Russia, which had been the world's leading exporter of fossil fuels, is expected to be hit especially hard by the energy disruptions it has largely created. As European nations race to reduce their reliance on Russian oil and gas, Russia is likely to face challenges in finding new markets in Asia, particularly for its natural gas, the report said. As a result, Russian fossil fuel exports are unlikely to return to their prewar levels.
But even though the current energy crisis is expected to be a boon for cleaner technologies in the long run, it is exacting a painful toll now, the report found.
Governments around the world have already committed roughly $500 billion this year to shield consumers from soaring energy prices. And while European nations currently appear to have enough natural gas in storage to get them through a mild winter this year, the report warns that next winter in Europe "could be even tougher" as stocks are drawn down and new supplies to replace Russian gas, such as increased shipments from the United States or Qatar, are slow to come online.
The situation looks even more dire in developing countries such as Pakistan and Bangladesh, which are facing energy shortages as deliveries of liquefied natural gas are diverted to Europe. Nearly 75 million people around the world who recently gained access to electricity are likely to lose it this year, the report said. If that happens, it would be the first time in a decade that the number of people worldwide who lack access to modern energy has risen.
There is still a possibility that soaring energy prices could produce social unrest and pushback against climate and clean energy policies in some countries. While the report concluded that climate change policies are not chiefly responsible for the spike in prices -  instead, it notes that renewable power and home weatherization efforts have actually blunted the impact of energy shocks in many regions - there is always the risk that governments could feel pressured to change course, Dr. Birol said.
The new report comes less than two weeks before nations are set to gather at U.N. climate talks in Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt, where diplomats will discuss whether and how to step up efforts to curb fossil fuel emissions and provide more financial aid from richer to poorer nations.
Separately on Thursday, the United Nations released its annual "emissions gap" report which details actions nations could take if they hope to slash emissions roughly in half this decade and stabilize global warming at around 1.5 degrees Celsius to avoid a drastic increase in heat waves, droughts, flooding and wildfires across the globe.
The report notes that most countries have now announced ambitious "net zero" emissions goals - broad promises to stop adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere by a certain date - that, if followed, could limit global warming to 1.8 degrees Celsius. But the report says these targets are "currently not credible" since most countries don't have policies in place to achieve them.
And nations have delayed so long in cutting emissions that they will now have to pursue "rapid transformation of societies" to meet those net-zero goals, the report said. That might include, for instance, rapidly phasing out conventional coal power or ending the sale of gasoline-powered cars over the next decade.
"Can we reduce greenhouse gas emissions by so much in that time frame? Perhaps not. But we must try," Inger Andersen, executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, said in a statement. "Every fraction of a degree matters: to vulnerable communities, to species and ecosystems, and to every one of us."
#13
Within months of Russia's invasion of Ukraine last year, there was near panic in Europe over energy supplies. Mainstay flows of natural gas through pipelines from Russia were dwindling to a relative trickle, pushing wholesale prices up more than 10 times the level of a year earlier. Oil prices were high. Lawmakers warned of fuel rationing and rolling blackouts, and winter loomed.
Now Europe has plenty of gas, much of it from Norway, the shale fields of Texas, and Qatar. The price has tumbled below preinvasion levels and has continued to slip lower almost daily. Oil prices appear steady. There no longer talk of imminent rationing.
But it's unclear if the danger has been banished, or whether the maneuvering last year that secured this position - when European countries seemed to spare no expense buying shiploads of expensive liquefied natural gas and China cut its energy needs as it shuttered its cities in "zero Covid" lockdowns - will be needed again this year.
There are concerns that complacency has set in, and some leaders of the energy industry warn that Europe has been lucky this winter. They say the coming years, with a revived Chinese economy potentially sucking in more energy imports, may be more of a test.
"We are not out of the energy crisis in Europe - far from it," said Wael Sawan, chief executive of Shell, Europe's largest energy company, on a recent call with financial analysts.
For now, a reliance on Russian energy that seemed more like a chokehold a year ago has significantly loosened. Russian gas supplies to Europe have been drastically reduced, and the region seems to be weathering recent bans on most Russian oil without a hiccup.
 "Within a year, Europe has totally made itself independent from its biggest fossil fuel supplier," said Henning Gloystein, director for energy at Eurasia Group, a political risk firm.
Bolstering the optimism: The coldest part of winter, when gas consumption soars, has passed with less economic pain than many forecast. "Europe has appeared to survive without a deep recession, and appears to be in a better position than six to nine months ago," said Michael Stoppard, chief strategist for global gas at S&P Global Commodity Insights.
Energy markets are much calmer than a few months ago, but European gas futures prices, at about 50 euros ($53) per megawatt-hour, are still more than double the levels of two years ago.
Analysts say that price level may be a new kind of normal, reflecting recent realities like competing with Asia for liquefied natural gas.
While consumers' utility bills remain high, they may soon start to fall. After appearing to peak last autumn, inflation is easing in Europe, as are costs to governments for protecting bill payers. Martin Young, an analyst at Investec, an investment bank in London, forecasts that a key British home energy charge known as a price cap will fall about 50 percent by July to an annual average of £2,165 ($2,585) per household.
At the same time, oil prices have dropped to about $82 a barrel for Brent crude, from last summer's highs of about $107. Russian crude and oil products, subject to bans in much of Europe and other Western countries, are now heading for India, China and other markets, and European nations are receiving more tankers from the Mideast, Latin America and the United States, according to Viktor Katona, an analyst at Kpler, which tracks energy shipping. Russia said recently that it would reduce its oil production by about 5 percent, which may indicate that it is encountering problems selling its oil.
Plenty of experts say Europe has been fortunate this winter. Mild weather has helped reduce demand for gas, which is heavily used for heating in Europe, while Beijing's Covid restrictions curbed China's appetite for gas, pivoting many L.N.G. shipments to Europe instead.
The worry is that next winter, colder temperatures combined with a resurgent, energy-hungry Chinese economy could put pressure on global gas supplies and cause prices to surge again.
"If China starts buying because they have opened up, and it is cold, then we are in trouble for the next couple of years," said Marco Alverà, chief executive of TES, which plans to build facilities for importing gas in Wilhelmshaven in northwest Germany. As a precaution, the German government is urging consumers to remain frugal with energy.
Experts like Mr. Alverà also say Europe has missed opportunities to lock up gas supplies from the United States with long-term contracts, largely because lawmakers don't want to undermine climate goals aimed at reaching carbon neutrality by 2050. At the same time, Europe has so far failed to come up with a program like the Biden administration's Inflation Reduction Act, which provides businesses with large tax breaks for clean energy investments.
Europe has "a lot of catching up to do," said Mr. Alverà, a former chief executive of Snam, an Italian gas transmission company.
In addition, gas production facilities around the world have been running flat-out with only modest additional supplies expected to come onto the market in the next two years. "Any supply disruption will have an impact on the market," Anders Opedal, the chief executive of Equinor, the Norwegian oil company, told reporters in London recently. Norway last year replaced Russia as Europe's largest gas supplier.
Europe, though, has taken steps that will leave it much better prepared than it was a year ago, analysts say. Once Russia invaded Ukraine, European policymakers quickly realized that decades of dependence on Russian gas had left them dangerously exposed. Governments and companies secured new sources in the form of L.N.G. Paradoxically, shipments of L.N.G. from Russia also increased.
Governments also rushed to build terminals to receive the fuel. Germany, which had no L.N.G. facilities before the war, has already put three terminals into service and plans three more by the end of this year. The construction moved at a speed previously unthinkable in a country notorious for red tape. The Netherlands and other European countries have also added or expanded such facilities.
Europeans also responded to calls to reduce gas consumption as much as possible, installing heat pumps to replace gas boilers and stoking wood-burning stoves. Some energy-intensive factories in industries like fertilizers, glass and steel also reduced production, contributing to a 14 percent drop in gas demand last year, according to S&P Global, a financial services firm. A big question is whether this steep cut in demand will prove permanent.
European countries also went on a natural gas-buying binge to fill underground storage facilities before winter. In Germany, several storage sites were owned by Gazprom, the Russian gas giant, which was accused of draining them to spook the markets. Berlin took control of these facilities and refilled them.
While the move benefited Russia, which sold some of the gas and drove up prices, it also brought benefits. Storage levels across the European Union are more than 60 percent of capacity; in Germany, the bloc's largest gas consumer, they exceed 70 percent. Those levels are roughly double those of a year ago and have helped calm markets.
Europe is likely to end the winter with far more gas in storage than a year ago, and won't need to buy as much to refill the facilities as it did this year. "Next winter is looking less concerning than this winter," Mr. Stoppard said.
#14
As world leaders, chief executives and nonprofit leaders descend on Davos, Switzerland, for the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum next week, war will be raging about 1,000 miles away.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine almost one year ago has reordered the geopolitical landscape, sent ripples through the global economy and brought trench warfare back to Europe.
Yet beyond the enormous human suffering and catastrophic damage inflicted on Ukraine, its people and its cities, one of the war's most profound impacts has been on global energy markets, and by extension, on the global fight against climate change.
For much of the last year, the effects of war sent energy prices soaring in many parts of the world, with Europe hit particularly hard.
Even without that market, Russia remains an energy giant. And coal has had a resurgence, subduing hopes for meeting goals to rein in greenhouse gas emissions.
Yet the outlook is not all grim, and nearly a year into the war, the story is not so simple. The Ukraine invasion has had mixed results when it comes to energy and climate, particularly in the long term.
Across Europe, gas bills nearly doubled and electricity costs spiked some 70 percent in the first six months of the war, according to the Household Energy Price Index, which tracks energy costs.
Costs were driven up for a variety of reasons. European countries began weaning themselves off Russian fossil fuels in a bid to inflict pain on Vladimir V. Putin's economy. In turn, Russia sharply reduced its oil exports to European countries and in July cut natural gas exports to Europe.
But with supplies tight on the global market, Russia was able to remain a dominant exporter even without Europe, selling more of its supply to China and India over the last year.
"In the short term, Russia has been a winner because of the increase in the price of oil," said Daniel Yergin, vice chairman of S&P Global and an energy historian.
What's more, with European countries scrambling to buy gas and oil from other sources, energy costs began to spike. That had the effect of pushing some countries to turn to coal.
"Today's energy crisis has given countries like India and China a reason to accelerate their coal plans," said Jason Bordoff, cofounding dean of the Columbia Climate School at Columbia University.
Altogether, that was not a good scenario for the climate, which continues to rapidly warm as a result of fossil fuel consumption.
The vast majority of climate scientists say that in order to limit the extent of the warming, humans should transition to renewable energy as fast as possible.
High prices and short supplies prompted calls to produce more fossil fuels, and for a time it looked as if decades of progress in combating climate change would be erased.
But that might not be so.
While Russia managed to sell its oil and gas elsewhere in recent months, it has lost the European market for the foreseeable future.
"Putin has destroyed 22 years of economic integration with the West. And he has also slammed the door on his most important market, which is Europe," Mr. Yergin said. "This is the last gasp of Russia as an energy superpower."
More important, the war - and the sudden unreliability of Russia as an energy exporter - has prompted many countries to accelerate their development of renewable energy.
From England to Spain to Albania, countries across the European continent are rushing to deploy wind and solar power at record rates.
"Notwithstanding the fact there is a bit more coal being burned by Europe, Europe is doubling down on green. Notwithstanding the fact that India is buying up every bit of cheap Russian fossil fuels that it can, Asia is investing in green," said Rachel Kyte, the dean of the Fletcher School at Tufts University.
"There is this sort of short-term supply shock story, but the moral of the story is that you don't want to be dependent on fossil fuels. The moral of the story is to be as green as possible."
The European Union is working to streamline permitting for renewable projects, countries are racing to build wind and solar farms, and some countries, including Germany, are slowing plans to phase out nuclear energy.
"On balance, the energy crisis we're experiencing now, which is the most severe we've seen since the '70s, is going to accelerate the clean energy transition," said Mr. Bordoff. "It's probably going to have a negative impact on emissions in the near term, but a positive impact in the longer term."
Among the banks and financial firms that fund the energy industry, a similar dynamic is playing out. While many financial institutions have embraced environmental, social and governance goals - also known as E.S.G. - that include reducing the amount of capital they commit to fossil fuels, some have relaxed those restrictions.
"Some of the banks have moved away from some of their E.S.G. commitments over the last year, simply because of the urgency of addressing the energy crisis," said Ian Bremmer, founder of Eurasia Group, a research and consulting firm.
At the end of the day, however, Mr. Bremmer believes that, "long term, all of this does redound to a faster transition to renewables."
There are caveats.
While Europe and the United States, for example, have the money to rapidly build wind and solar capacity, poorer countries in Africa and Asia are scrambling to meet their immediate needs.
"I fear that this energy crisis will accelerate the clean energy transition in the developed world, but not in the developing world," Mr. Bordoff said.
And in the United States, the past year was also a story of short-term energy shocks and a longer term investment in renewable power. Gas prices spiked in 2022 as oil markets tightened. Oil reserves were depleted as the Biden administration tried to bring down gas prices last year, and will need to be replenished in the years ahead.
At the same time, President Biden signed into law the Inflation Reduction Act, which includes a record $370 billion in spending and tax credits to fight climate change.
While prices have stabilized and Europe has so far benefited from a relatively mild winter, there are nagging concerns about the future. Even as European countries embrace renewable power, it will be years before those sources can fully replace fossil fuels.
"Europe is already on course to get through this winter," Mr. Yergin said. "The big worry now, and we'll hear this at Davos, is next winter, when they won't have any Russian gas to put into storage."
And while that is a dire scenario, it only reinforces what many experts say is one of the key lessons of the war so far: that renewable energy is not just good for the climate, but good for national security, too.
"If we were less dependent on globally traded oil and gas," Mr. Bordoff said, "we would be more energy secure."
#15
For a hot minute, it looked like the Doomers might be proved wrong.
In recent years, the rapid deployment of renewable energy and a shift away from the dirtiest fossil fuels has given even grizzled climate activists cause for some measure of hope.
The most extreme projections about temperature rise on planet Earth were replaced by less apocalyptic forecasts, and while the world wasn't shifting away from fossil fuels nearly fast enough, there appeared to be a realistic pathway to significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the decades ahead.
Yet now, at the very moment the world seems to be making real progress in the fight against global warming, the scale of the problem seems to be getting even bigger.
Electricity demand is spiking, thanks to artificial intelligence and a new generation of energy-hungry data centers. Overall energy consumption keeps climbing as a new middle class rises in the developing world. And a large-scale phaseout of planet-warming emissions is being hampered by short-term politics, global conflict and ossified financial markets.
These are just some of the themes being discussed Wednesday at the Climate Forward conference hosted by The New York Times. Interviewees will include the primatologist Jane Goodall, Gov. Roy Cooper of North Carolina, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator Michael Regan and more.
By 2050, global demand for electricity is expected to rise by as much as 75 percent, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Much of that demand will come from rapidly developing nations in Africa and Southeast Asia. But even in the United States, energy consumption is soaring after remaining relatively flat for 15 years.
"Everyone is assuming that wealthy countries will taper their energy demand on a certain timeline," said Raj Shah, president of the Rockefeller Foundation, a nonprofit group that is working on expanding clean energy access in poor countries. "But that assumption will be blown out of the water by whatever the next new waves of technology are."
The fact that energy use is skyrocketing should come as no surprise. Since before the industrial revolution, human progress has meant using more energy. Global transportation, heavy industry, mass production, and the computing revolution have all raised living standards around the world, but also required huge amounts of power. The next waves of technological progress - including A.I. and even more global travel - will only compound the need for energy.
It's true that a growing share of the world's power will come from clean sources, including solar panels and wind turbines. Last year alone, nearly 86 percent of the new power generation built worldwide came from clean sources, according to the International Renewable Energy Agency.
But with the global population expected to rise by as much as 1.7 billion in the next 25 years and overall energy demand rising in tandem, the gains in solar and wind may not be enough to rapidly displace dirty forms of power such as oil, gas and coal. Rather than taking the place of fossil fuels, renewable energy sources are simply helping meet the additional demand.
Indeed, both the production and the use of oil and gas are still booming worldwide, and planet-warming emissions are still on the rise.
Major economies such as India and China continue to build new coal plants. The United States is currently the world's biggest supplier of natural gas and is constructing new gas power plants; the U.S. is also producing record amounts of oil. And countries in the Middle East are proceeding with plans to pump oil for many decades to come.
What's more, while there are promising emissions-free alternatives to electricity generation, progress is slower in identifying viable replacements for things like aviation fuel, shipping fuel, concrete, plastics and more.
"Despite all the noble efforts, emissions set new records every year," said Scott Kirby, the chief executive of United Airlines, itself a major polluter. "The amount of coal burned on the planet, probably the dirtiest form of emissions, goes up every year."
Energy Transition
The perils of these choices and a warming planet are already clear. Global average temperatures have been 1.5 degrees Celsius higher than preindustrial levels for most of the past year, exceeding a threshold that scientists had long warned of crossing. The result: last year was the hottest year on record, with withering heat waves, deadly droughts and extreme weather around the globe.
As long as fossil fuel emissions persist at scale, temperatures will keep rising, and the heat and violent weather will keep getting worse. On the flip side, the faster the world builds more clean power to replace fossil fuels, the sooner the planet will stop heating up.
Those simple truths make plain the global stakes of the energy transition. And with most of the new energy demand expected to come from the developing world, it is in some of the poorest countries on Earth that the battle to keep global warming at bay will be won or lost.
If the next billion people to gain access to reliable electricity in Africa and Asia get it from diesel generators and natural gas plants, emissions from those regions will likely keep rising for many decades to come - and that will warm the planet as a whole.
But if the developing world's surging appetite for electricity can be met with distributed, renewable power plants - such as small-scale solar arrays and modest wind farms - the world might be spared that additional warming.
"Whether all that power is supplied by renewables or coal is something that will affect every human being on this planet," Mr. Shah said.
A large-scale shift to renewables in the developing world would mark a major change in how power is produced and distributed. For the past 100 years, most electricity has been generated at large power plants and sent out through a network of transmission lines.
But the sudden changes in technology and economics are producing an overnight revolution that is upending that model. Inexpensive solar panels are making it possible for communities in Pakistan, South Africa and beyond to quickly start powering small homes and commercial operations with reliable, affordable electricity.
"It is in some of the world's poorest countries that the battle to keep global warming at bay will be won or lost."
"The real energy transition will rely on local, decentralized power systems," said Hindou Oumarou Ibrahim, an environmental activist and geographer from Chad. "We can build local smart grids, free of fossil fuel, working with communities to have them produce their own energy."
Beyond producing fewer planet warming emissions, the creation of small-scale renewable energy can help raise living standards, too. "It can enable women, rural population, and increase their revenues and also create job for youth," said Ms. Ibrahim.
Yet even as prices of solar panels fall, it remains maddeningly difficult for many countries in the developing world to access the cost-competitive capital needed for larger clean energy projects, which will still play a role in powering big countries with massive economies including Kenya, India, Pakistan and Nigeria.
Loans for renewable projects in the developing world are often charged higher interest rates than loans for fossil fuel projects. The World Bank and other multilateral organizations are working to make such loans more affordable, and the issue is expected to be a main topic at the United Nations climate summit in Azerbaijan in November.
But for now, many poor countries that need more reliable energy remain saddled with crippling debt that makes it hard to invest in upgraded infrastructure.
"Financing is lagging and bankability is lagging, and all these countries are facing the post-Covid global inflationary shock, a kind of hangover that it means that no one is able to invest, and the countries are broke," said James Mwangi, a clean energy entrepreneur from Kenya. "So instead of flying into these new technologies, there's just no liquidity to invest in them, and you end up with energy poverty and slow adoption."
Economic Pressures
The financial challenges are not just in the developing world. Economics remain an impediment to large scale change in the United States, too.
Surging global demand for energy has made the U.S. the world's biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas, and pressures to keep domestic energy prices low has led to record oil production. Investors discourage large energy companies from investing in renewable projects. As a result, oil and gas corporations are recording record profits and investing almost none of that capital into renewables.
And with interest rates high over the past two years, it has become exceedingly difficult to build some well-established clean power projects, especially offshore wind.
Given all that, some utilities across the U.S. are backtracking on their plans to go green. Duke Energy, a major power producer in the South, recently walked back from aggressive plans to cut its emissions and instead proposed a major new investment in natural gas generation.
Other major corporations are also retreating from their most ambitious climate pledges. And with the electric vehicle market softening, automakers are delaying their efforts to transition production away from gasoline-powered cars and trucks.
"People are not willing to give up energy," said Mr. Kirby of United Airlines. "And it's increasingly clear that people are not willing to pay more for clean energy."
Government incentives, including the Inflation Reduction Act, have spurred a new round of investments in renewable energy and battery projects. The tax credits included in that law, the biggest ever federal investment to combat climate change, have helped create hundreds of thousands of new jobs and spark a domestic manufacturing boom.
But even with those gains, it remains difficult to get big new clean power plants online, in large measure because the American grid is antiquated and underdeveloped.
"There's this belief that we can do utility scale renewables and that's going to solve this problem," said Patty Cook, an executive at ICF, a global energy consultancy. "But there aren't enough transmission lines to serve that demand."
And while many corporate executives say they would welcome a carbon tax, politicians in the United States have been steadfastly opposed to the idea. Economists say such a tax would be an effective way to spur a rapid transition away from fossil fuels, but elected officials have shunned the idea, fearing it would raise energy costs and hurt their chances of re-election.
"Everyone wants clean, affordable, reliable energy," said Ms. Cook. "That's the holy grail. But it's really difficult to get all three."
Demand for Electricity
While there is no doubt that the global population is soaring, energy use is spiking and fossil fuels are sticking around, some energy analysts still predict a potentially bright future. Indeed, they believe that many of the projections are simply inaccurate.
"Forecasts show continued emissions that are not necessarily consistent with climate goals," said Mark Dyson, managing director at RMI, a nonprofit group that works with companies to reduce their emissions. "But forecasts change."
Mr. Dyson, who studies long-term energy demand, says that for decades, officials have overestimated energy demand, and underestimated the growth of renewables and gains in efficiency.
Indeed, in the projections for soaring electricity demand, Mr. Dyson sees signs of progress. That's exactly what's to be expected as electric vehicles replace gasoline-powered cars and electric heating replaces oil and gas heating.
"Electricity demand is a feature, not a bug, of the clean energy transition and the pathway for meeting our climate goals," he said. "Powering more of our economy with electricity, rather than fossil fuels, may get easier in the years ahead." With the Federal Reserve cutting interest rates, the cost of capital should fall, making some clean energy projects more affordable.
Data centers, while energy hogs, are getting more efficient, as are electric vehicles, new buildings and many other electrified staples of modern life. A flurry of innovation is underway that could soon provide new, affordable ways to reduce emissions, produce energy and power society.
There are even promising signs in some parts of the developed world, namely Europe. The European Union's overall carbon emissions fell by 5 percent last year. And while the E.U. faces many of the same challenges hampering the United States' rapid adoption of clean power, it also has a powerful incentive spurring reform: a tax on carbon.
"We're not standing still anymore," said Mr. Krupp of the E.D.F. "We've already begun to move forward."
Moving forward may well mean advances in the deployment of clean power. It may mean rapid gains in the efficiency of everything from cars to data centers. It may even mean breakthroughs in new forms of power, such as fusion or small-scale nuclear.
But as the catastrophic effects of climate change continue to mount, human ingenuity will have to do much more than get better at delivering energy. It will also have to help humans adapt to life on a hotter planet.
We will need new technologies to manage an atmosphere dense with long-lasting emissions, new solutions to protect vulnerable populations from rising seas, and new strategies for helping nature flourish and agriculture thrive.
"We should not think that we are passive victims of forecasts," Mr. Dyson said. "We actually have agency, we have the tools, and the tools get better every year."
#16
Carbon-free electricity has never been more plentiful. Wind and solar power have taken off over the past two decades, faster than experts ever expected. But it hasn't yet been enough to halt the rise of coal- and gas-burning generation.
That's because global demand for electricity has grown even faster than clean energy, leaving fossil fuels to fill the gap.
The dynamic has pushed up carbon emissions from the power sector at a time when scientists say they need to be falling - and fast - to avoid dangerous levels of global warming.
Much of the rising power demand has come from rapidly-developing countries like China and India, where new coal plants are still coming online alongside wind and solar farms to power meteoric economic growth. But many industrialized nations are also not moving away from fossil fuels fast enough to meet their stated climate change goals.
Even on today's trajectory, many experts expect that fossil-fueled power will peak globally in the next few years. It's already falling in major economies like the United States and Europe, and analysts expect China, by far the world's largest power producer, to begin reducing coal-fired generation soon.
The world's climate future will depend, in large part, on what happens next.
Experts broadly agree that keeping global temperature rise to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius, the world's self-imposed climate goal - and ideally as low as 1.5 degrees - will require peaking and then rapidly reducing fossil-fueled power, in favor of carbon-free sources, like wind and solar. (The world has already warmed about 1.2 degrees since preindustrial times.)
"The big question," said Dave Jones, an electricity analyst at Ember, a London-based think tank, is whether countries can increase the pace of renewable energy deployment so that they're not just bringing down power sector emissions slowly, but "actually enabling deep and rapid carbon dioxide emissions cuts."
That question will take center stage at a global climate summit later this month.
The stakes are enormous.
The power sector is already the world's single biggest source of planet-warming emissions. And plans to decarbonize many other parts of the global economy - like transportation, buildings and industry - also rely on plugging in to cleaner power.
How electricity generation has changed in recent decades for the world's major power producers, both rich countries and rapidly-developing ones, helps explain today's global picture and underscores the climate challenges ahead.
The rapid growth of renewable energy has played a major role.
Wind turbines and solar panels generated 22 percent of the European Union's electricity last year, up from less than 1 percent two decades ago. The United States made 15 percent of its electricity from wind and solar energy last year, which is slightly more than the global average.
The boom of cheap renewable power helped replace coal-fired generation in Europe. In the United States, natural gas - which pollutes less than coal when burned, but still warms the climate - played a key role in coal's decline, alongside quickly-growing wind and solar.
Lower overall electricity demand also contributed to the decline of fossil-fueled power.
Electricity use grew rapidly in rich countries like the United States and many European nations during the previous century, but started to plateau or even decline in the 2000s largely thanks to improved energy efficiency, as well as the outsourcing of heavy industries.
Yet neither the United States' nor the European Union's trajectories are currently on track to meet the world's ambitious 1.5 degree Celsius climate goal. Both major power producers recently passed legislation aimed at ramping up renewable energy, but growing economic headwinds and other challenges threaten to slow down their transitions, even as energy experts say they need to accelerate.
China overtook the United States as the world's single largest power producer in 2010, and now makes nearly a third of the world's electricity. (The country's per person electricity generation is still much lower than America's.)
For decades, the country's soaring power demand was fulfilled largely by coal, the most polluting fossil fuel. Coal-fired generation continued to grow, though at a slower pace, even as China significantly expanded carbon-free power in recent years, especially wind and solar.
Now, China's power sector is getting close to a turning point.
Energy analysts expect carbon-free power to grow enough in the next few years to start pushing out coal-fired electricity here, too. And because of the country's outsize share of the global total, peak coal power in China will likely be a global one.
How quickly coal power and related emissions will decline after that peak is less clear. In a recent agreement with the United States, China said it would speed up renewable energy deployment to "accelerate the substitution for coal, oil and gas generation" and agreed to pursue "meaningful" power-sector emissions cuts over the next decade. But whether it will stop approving new coal plants remains to be seen.
Coal continues to dominate electricity generation in other rapidly-developing countries, many of them in Asia, as well.
India, the world's most populous nation, has set strong renewable energy targets, but officials say the country still needs coal to develop its economy and provide reliable, affordable power to millions of people. Indonesia, meanwhile, said it could phase out coal power by 2040 if it gets enough financial help from rich countries to build out cleaner energy.
Financing wind and solar projects remains a challenge for developing countries, said Faran Rana, an associate program officer at the International Renewable Energy Agency. "When you look at lifecycle costs, renewables are by far more cost-competitive than any fossil-fueled generation," he said. "But the upfront cost is a barrier."
Millions of people around the world also continue to go without access to any form of electricity.
While major global challenges remain, said Nancy Haegel, a researcher at the United States' National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the rapid growth of solar and wind generation so far shows that "this transition is doable and it's well under way."
#17
There may be no better place to see evidence of Britain's shift to cleaner energy than a sleek industrial complex on the Humber estuary outside Hull, a faded port city.
On a July morning, workers in a brightly lit building were preparing molds for fiberglass wind turbine blades longer than football fields. Outside on the docks, squat six-wheeled vehicles gingerly maneuvered a blade weighing 50 metric tons for loading onto a ship that would take it to Scotland for installation.
The factory, which is operated by Siemens Gamesa, a unit of the German company Siemens Energy, began producing the massive blades in 2016. It has since expanded to accommodate larger models.
The factory is a case study for how the new British government under Prime Minister Keir Starmer, whose Labour Party delivered a decisive election victory last week, hopes to use investment in clean energy to bolster stagnant economic growth.
Andy Sykes, the manager of the factory, said that 500 million pounds, or about $630 million, had already been invested in the plant, which employs 1,300 people in an area that has struggled economically for decades. Another round of expansion is in the works.
The plant also serves as an anchor for green efforts in the region, one of Britain's major industrial areas, which is dominated by oil refineries and other polluters.
Mr. Sykes, though, said the British government would need to attract the funding for port expansion and other efforts to keep the offshore wind industry growing. "There needs to be a commitment and a guarantee that there's a return on investment," he said.
The government is also facing concerns about the costs of the transition and its potential to hurt job growth in a region that depends on the energy industry for employment opportunities.
Executives in the clean energy industry like most of what they have heard from the Labour Party. Mr. Starmer, who took office on Friday, had made the rapid expansion of low carbon energy - from wind to nuclear - a key plank of his campaign to not only tackle climate change but to also bring in what could be tens of billions of pounds in investment.
Among his pledges: quadrupling Britain's offshore wind capacity, which is already second globally to China's, as part of an ambitious effort to eliminate emissions from electric power generation by 2030.
Mr. Starmer also wants to streamline Britain's agonizingly slow development planning process, sweeping away restrictions in England that prevent the building of land-based wind farms, for instance. Wind is already the largest source of power generation in Britain, accounting for about 30 percent of supplies over the last year, slightly more than natural gas.
And Mr. Starmer wants the government to have a bigger role in renewable energy.
The vision pleases both clean energy operators and environmentalists, who have chafed at what they perceive as a loss of momentum on climate goals under the former Prime Minister Rishi Sunak.
"Achieving that by 2030 or even getting close to that would be just an enormous step forward, far, far ahead of our major economy peers," said Chris Stark, a former chief executive of the Climate Change Committee, a government body that monitors Britain's plans to cut greenhouse gas emissions.
Mr. Starmer is also taking a tough approach to old-line energy producers. He has said he would tighten an existing tax squeeze on oil and gas companies operating in the North Sea and stop issuing exploration licenses in the area, which, while in decline, is still a major source of both energy and jobs.
"The U.K. has, and I think continues to be, at the leading edge of the energy transition," said Roger Martella, the chief sustainability officer at GE Vernova, a maker of wind turbines and other energy-related machinery.
Labour has presented these proposals as an almost risk-free bonanza. The push will not only help stave off climate change, but also create some 650,000 jobs, the party forecasts.
The party says that more blades spinning in the safety of home waters would insulate Britain from the impact of international events, like the sharp rise in electricity and natural gas prices that occurred after Russia's invasion of Ukraine in 2022.
"Families and businesses will have lower bills for good," the party said in an election document.
Analysts warn, though, that Labour's proposals are unlikely to be cheap, and they come with other risks. For one thing, Labour is proposing a large effort to build green energy infrastructure in an economy that is more focused on sectors like finance. "The U.K. doesn't have almost any of the supply chain for developing wind or solar or, indeed, nuclear or anything else," said Dieter Helm, a professor of economic policy at the University of Oxford.
Such shortcomings have already been seen in the soaring costs plaguing Hinkley Point, the first nuclear power station that Britain has tried to build in decades.
A rush to build renewable energy sources could push up costs, which might then be passed on to consumers. "If cost is no object, that's great," said David Reiner, who teaches energy policy at the Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge, adding that Labour's goals might be achievable with an increase in electric bills.
The environment for building renewable energy projects has become much tougher since the coronavirus pandemic. According to industry estimates, the costs of developing an offshore wind farm - large ones run to billions of dollars - have risen 40 percent in recent years because of higher material and labor costs and interest rates.
An auction last year for government support produced no bids for offshore wind projects, and the industry said that the government's electric power pricing targets were unrealistically low. Industry executives said the results of a new auction, expected to be announced in September, would be seen as a bellwether for the future British market.
Finally, there are risks that moving fast to curtail oil and gas production could cost more jobs around the North Sea, especially in Scotland and northeast England, than the ones green energy would create.
James Reid, an analyst at the consulting firm Wood Mackenzie, forecast that production could fall 50 percent by the end of the decade if Labour's fiscal proposals cause "people to turn the investment taps off."
Highlighting the stakes: Around 200,000 North Sea energy jobs are linked to oil and gas, but just 34,000 are linked to renewables, estimated Paul de Leeuw, the director of the Energy Transition Institute at Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen, Britain's oil center. "It is scary and a real call to action," he said.
Mr. de Leeuw said that renewable energy could compensate for a lot of jobs expected to be lost in the oil industry, but the pace of building new projects needed to be much faster, "not an easy thing to do," he said.
A worker prepares a mold for a wind turbine blade. Siemens Gamesa has invested about $630 million in the plant and has more plans for expansion.Credit...Jack Roe for The New York Times
Oil workers are alarmed at the threat to their own jobs and skeptical about finding alternatives in renewable energy or elsewhere. Unite, one of the largest unions in Britain, and usually a key supporter of the Labour Party, has even organized small protests in Aberdeen against Mr. Starmer's planned curbs on the oil industry.
"The lads don't see any other option apart from the oil and gas industry," said Kyle Griffiths, a union official who cleans and paints oil tanks on an offshore platform.
To help stimulate investment, Mr. Starmer has promised to set up a government company called Great British Energy, with headquarters in Scotland, to fund new renewable initiatives like mounting turbines on floating platforms.
The 8.3 billion pounds that Mr. Starmer intends to put into the new company over five years is relatively small, but its impact could be multiplied through partnerships and loans.
"We've got lots of projects we could partner with them on," said Alistair Phillips-Davies, the chief executive of SSE, a utility based in Scotland that is one of Britain's largest green energy developers.
Britain may be a leader in offshore wind generating capacity, but it has fallen short in securing jobs that make the equipment, analysts said. Aside from the Hull factory, there is only one other comparable offshore wind site in Britain - a blade factory and test center operated by Vestas, the Danish turbine maker, on the Isle of Wight.
"Unrivaled wind installation programs in the U.K. have mainly benefited producers in neighboring European countries, notably Germany and Denmark," Simone Gasperin and Joshua Emden wrote in a study that was recently published by the Institute for Public Policy Research.
While the Hull plant may be controlled by a foreign company and producing blades designed elsewhere, it is at least supporting relatively well-paid jobs in an area that could use them. When the company was staffing up a decade ago, it received 28,000 applications, Mr. Sykes said.
#18
Just a decade ago, the small, resource-rich nation of Ecuador was embarking on a bold transition to hydroelectric power.
It was one of many South American countries betting that their abundant rivers, harnessed by dams, could satisfy growing energy needs - and help drive economic expansion, lifting millions from poverty and leading the way into a new era of prosperity.
Today, those grand designs are colliding with a warming climate.
Ecuador has been pummeled by an extraordinary drought, exacerbated by global warming, that has engulfed much of South America, drying rivers and reservoirs and putting the country's power grid on the brink of collapse.
Since September, daily energy cuts have lasted as long as 14 hours. Highways have turned an inky black; entire neighborhoods have lost running water, even internet and cell service. One industry group says the nation is losing $12 million in productivity and sales for every hour power is out.
 "My country is adrift," said Gabriela Jijón, 46, who owns an ice cream shop outside Quito, the capital.
But Ecuador is not alone. In recent years, abnormally dry weather in places around the globe has sent rivers to extreme lows, draining hydropower resources in places like Norway, Canada, Turkey and even lush Costa Rica.
Zambia, highly dependent on hydropower, faced daily power cuts of up to 21 hours this year. Parts of China, also reliant on water for energy, suffered lengthy outages starting in 2022.
In all, more than one billion people live in countries where more than 50 percent of their energy comes from hydroelectric plants, according to Ember, a global energy research institute. Yet, as the climate warms and extreme weather events like drought become more common - and more severe - many scientists expect hydropower to become a less reliable energy source.
More than a quarter of all hydroelectric dams are in places with a medium to extreme risk for water scarcity by 2050, according to a 2022 study in the journal Water.
Ecuador is, in many ways, a bellwether for what other nations may face.
Some nations, including the United States and Ecuador's neighbors in South America, Colombia and Brazil, have backup plans to switch to alternative sources, including fossil fuels, when hydropower runs low.
But the cost of ensuring extra energy capacity is prohibitive, and many countries are unprepared for worsening conditions, said Nicolas Fulghum, a senior analyst at Ember.
China is a growing concern, Mr. Fulghum said. In 2022 and 2023, dry conditions in the country's southwest prompted blackouts that closed factories and severely disrupted commerce.
The country gets just 13 percent of its power from water - compared with Ecuador's 70 percent - but because China is so large and so connected to the global economy, future droughts are likely to have "cascading effects," Mr. Fulghum said.
In Ecuador, President Daniel Noboa, facing re-election in February, pledged recently to end power cuts this month, claiming that energy the country is purchasing from nearby Colombia, as well as other factors, would ease the power crisis.
But energy experts expect any relief to be temporary. Unless there is a deluge - about two weeks of heavy rain are needed to raise reservoir levels - regular energy outages could endure until at least 2026, said Iván Endara, a professor at the Coastal Higher Polytechnic School, an Ecuadorean university.
To truly end to the crisis, he said, years of work must be put into diversifying and building out the country's energy sector.
In 2007, a new leftist president, Rafael Correa, swept into office in Ecuador, promising to build a modernized, more socially and environmentally conscious nation.
The country had already suffered through a monthslong energy crisis in the 1990s, and then again in 2009, both prompting blackouts and caused by drought.
Responding to rising electricity demands from a growing population, and hoping to use electricity to supercharge his vision for the nation, Mr. Correa's government invested billions of dollars to expand its energy output.
By harnessing water, not burning oil or gas, to produce electricity, this new energy matrix was supposed to help mitigate the effects of global climate change - not make Ecuador a victim of it.
Borrowing heavily from Chinese lenders, Mr. Correa's government launched almost a dozen new hydroelectric projects, massive dams that became emblematic of the country's transformation.
One project in particular, a $2.2 billion dam known as Coca Codo Sinclair, was plagued with design flaws, critics said, as well as allegations that some officials took bribes in exchange for awarding the dam contract to the company Sinohydro.
Yet between 2007 and 2017, when Mr. Correa left office, the country's overall energy generation capacity rose about 60 percent, according the Ministry of Energy and Mines.
Other changes included a new constitution that eventually placed the energy sector almost entirely under state control - something critics later said led to mismanagement and inefficiency.
Most of the growth came from hydroelectricity, with some increases in fossil fuels, wind and solar capacity.
Then, when Mr. Correa left office, the capacity to generate electricity fell flat.
The former president, in an interview from his current home in Belgium, said climate change was "not the problem" at the root of Ecuador's energy crisis.
Instead, he blamed the three governments that followed his for failing to maintain hydro and thermoelectric power plants, and faulted them for not building out other energy sources, leading to decreased capacity and the inability to keep producing electricity in adverse conditions.
"I have never seen such rapid destruction of a country in times of peace," he said.
(Mr. Correa left Ecuador in 2017, and was convicted in 2020 on corruption charges unrelated to energy projects.)
In interviews, two of the three presidents who succeeded Mr. Correa - Lenin Moreno and Guillermo Lasso - said that they did invest in expanding capacity, noting that energy projects often take years to come online. But both noted that they faced economic headwinds that Mr. Correa did not - first, falling oil prices that greatly contracted the country's economy, which is highly dependent on petroleum exports.
Then came the pandemic. Mr. Lasso described his challenge as: "Do I buy vaccines or do I invest in thermoelectric plants?"
But Mr. Moreno, who took office in 2017, said the "principal" problem was the country's "excessive focus on hydroelectric energy" which "left the system extremely vulnerable to climate change phenomena."
Mr. Lasso, who took office in 2021, cited something else: He called Ecuador's political culture a main driver of the crisis, describing it as shortsighted and prone to neglecting long-term solutions to major challenges - including energy security.
Representatives for the current president, Mr. Noboa, declined to comment.
With lights out for long stretches, particularly at night, Ecuadoreans described rushing home from work, instead of stopping for shopping or social events, fearful of what could happen on darkened streets.
The lesson in Ecuador, said Mr. Fulghum of Ember, is not that nations should abandon hydropower, but that they should invest heavily in alternatives - preferably clean energy alternatives like wind and solar - that can compensate for water shortages.
He cited Brazil and Chile as nations that have done just that.
In Ecuador, power cuts began last year, then became daily occurrences in September, shutting businesses and sending entire industries into crisis.
Uncertainty has gripped the country, exacerbated by a booming narcotrafficking industry that has fueled violence.
Just a few years ago, Ecuador was making great strides in reducing poverty.
Now "everything that was achieved in those years of prosperity is being lost," said Mónica Rojas, dean of economics at the University of San Francisco in Quito.
Those affected by the energy crisis include educational institutions like the Triangle Foundation, in Quito, which provides schooling and job training to people with Down syndrome, moving them into employment.
Many families are poor, and in some cases students become the primary breadwinners. Nancy de Maldonado, a founder, said getting a child into the program is "the biggest lottery" a family can win.
Yet the organization budgeted $3,000 for energy costs this year, far short of the $15,000 needed to pay for diesel to power a donated generator. Tuition may need to be raised, shutting out some of the poorest families.
In Salcedo, a town south of Quito, Ms. Jijón, the ice cream shop owner, is not the only one struggling to keep products cold.
The town lives or dies on ice cream - it has become famous for selling layered cream-and-fruit pops invented by Franciscan nuns.
But when energy cuts began, Helados de Salcedo, one of the town's biggest companies, immediately lost tens of thousands of dollars' worth of product, with employees watching it melt before their eyes.
Then the small shops that sell their ice creams stopped ordering - store owners couldn't keep them cold.
By November, Paco Hinojosa, 58, the company's general manager, figured they could survive "another three months."
Perhaps those most deeply affected are the poorest Ecuadoreans, with no safety net.
In northern Quito one evening, the last glimmer of daylight shone in Katherine Mantilla's bedroom. On her bed, propped on cinder blocks, Ms. Mantilla, 19, cradled her newborn daughter, Kenya, in her arms.
Kenya was born in October, a month into the energy crisis, with breathing problems. Doctors had sent her home with an oxygen tank and instructions to use it at regular intervals. But Ms. Mantilla had lost her income.
She used to sell sandwiches at traffic stops, making $8 a day. Then the stoplights went out, and people just raced through intersections, paying no mind to the young women with armfuls of snacks.
Now, Ms. Mantilla had no money to refill the oxygen tank - not even enough to buy a flashlight.
At night, she said, she was gripped by a fear that Kenya's chest would stop rising and she wouldn't notice.
"If she stops breathing," said Ms. Mantilla, "if she changes color, how will I see it?"
#19
European leaders have been converging on Africa's capital cities, eager to find alternatives to Russian natural gas - sparking hope among their counterparts in Africa that the invasion of Ukraine may tilt the scales in the continent's unequal relationship with Europe, attracting a new wave of gas investments despite pressure to pivot to renewables.
In September, Poland's president arrived in Senegal in pursuit of gas deals. In May, the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, came seeking the same thing and in recent weeks told the German Parliament that Europe's energy crisis necessitated working "together with countries where there is the possibility of developing new gas fields," while keeping pledges to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
"With the war, it's a U-turn," said Mamadou Fall Kane, energy adviser to the president of Senegal. "The narrative has changed."
The flurry of European overtures has led to new or fast-tracked energy projects, with talk of more to come. The hope in African capitals is that Europe's appetite will mean the financing of gas facilities not just for export but for use at home. In parts of the continent, the economic stakes are enormous.
Italian government ministers have accompanied executives from Eni, one of the largest energy companies in the world, to Algeria, Angola and the Republic of Congo as well as to Mozambique, where a natural-gas terminal operated by Eni is expected to begin supplying gas to Europe in a matter of days. Eni is now discussing an additional terminal with the Mozambican government.
And in recent weeks, officials from the Democratic Republic of Congo have embarked on an international marketing tour to draw the attention of U.S. and European companies to new oil and gas blocks they have put up for auction. Climate activists have denounced the auction because it includes oil blocks that overlap a gorilla sanctuary as well as fragile peatlands that store immense amounts of carbon dioxide, a planet-warming greenhouse gas.
In interviews, African leaders lamented that it had taken a war, thousands of miles away in Ukraine, to give them bargaining power on energy deals, and they described what they saw as a double standard. Europe, after all, used not just natural gas, but far dirtier fuels like coal, for hundreds of years to drive an age of empire-building and industrialization.
Their main complaint: Less developed nations should be free to burn more gas in coming years, despite the climate crisis and the need for the world cut back on fossil fuels, because their citizens deserve higher standards of living and greater access to reliable electricity and other basics. But European and international lenders have made it far too costly, Africa's leaders say.
Instead, European leaders have often seemed to preach to Africans about reducing carbon dioxide emissions while providing little of the necessary financing to help build green energy alternatives, all while continuing to emit far more than Africa.
"Just two to three months ago, those same Europeans who were lecturing us on 'no gas' say they'll make a compromise," said Amani Abou-Zeid, the African Union's commissioner for energy and infrastructure. "We are trying to survive. But instead we are being infantilized."
A recent political cartoon by the Tanzanian artist Gado, widely shared on social media, captured that frustration after John Kerry, the United States climate envoy, spoke last month at an environmental conference in Senegal.
In the cartoon, which paraphrases his speech, Mr. Kerry stands at a podium and delivers a remark that reflects the lecture many African leaders feel they've been receiving from Western counterparts. "Well guess what, folks?" he says while smiling next to billowing American flags. "Mother Nature does not measure where the emissions come from. We are all responsible for this."
The argument by some African officials is that natural gas, more affordable and cleaner than oil and coal, should serve as a transitional fuel for the continent to bridge the gap to renewables like wind or solar, just as it has in Europe.
In an interview shortly after Russia invaded Ukraine, Mr. Kerry said the atmosphere could handle some new fossil fuel plants in developing nations as long as the world's 20 largest economies, which produce 80 percent of global emissions, were transitioning away from dirty energy.
Western governments have aimed to promote growth in renewable energy in less-developed countries through a so-called just transition in which they partly underwrite new projects. Last year, the United States, Britain, Germany, France and the European Union pledged $8.5 billion in grants and loans to help South Africa transition away from coal, a major influx of money for renewables on the continent.
Yet, it was a rare one. In general, Western investment in renewables in African countries has been even more paltry than in fossil-fuel projects.
Energy poverty on the continent has suffocated the growth of industries that create jobs and undergird economies. More than 600 million Africans do not have access to power and nearly a billion use firewood and charcoal, fuels that are causing significant respiratory problems and death, to heat their homes and cook.
Electrifying every African home could be done by 2030 with investments of just $25 billion a year, according to the International Energy Agency, a fraction of what's invested in global energy today.
Experts say that Western concern over African countries' desire to burn more gas at home in coming years is misplaced from a climate-change perspective. The International Energy Agency projected this year that if African countries developed all their known gas reserves, Africa's contribution to global emissions would only rise to an estimated 3.5 percent from 3 percent.
Outside of the continent's biggest emitters (coal-dependent South Africa, as well as the established oil and gas producers of North Africa) the 47 other African countries combined emit less than even some of Europe's smaller economies, like Greece. With Western investments in gas suddenly growing again, those disparities are likely to remain.
Just this month, Britain announced as many as 100 new domestic gas drilling licenses despite studies from its own government indicating the best way to lower energy costs in the long term would be to shift away from fossil fuels. In August, President Biden said he would resume selling leases for oil and gas drilling on federal land. And in July, the Group of 7, the international club of major industrialized democracies, watered down a pledge to stop funding fossil fuel projects abroad, saying the war presented "exceptional circumstances."
Acknowledging the double standard is just the beginning, African leaders said in interviews. More important, Europe needs to come around to financing African gas projects quickly, and not just with an eye toward exports to Europe.
"We must move urgently beyond grandstanding," said Akinwumi Adesina, the president of the African Development Bank. "Even Europe's energy transition was not possible without gas. Reality is reality."
Lenders like the African Development Bank have been putting money into gas for years, but without an influx of finance from Europe, projects could take decades to get started.
Gas prices in Europe have been falling because the continent's major economies have managed to replace most of their Russian gas supply with imports from Norway, North Africa and the United States. Experts predict much of Europe's gas needs in coming years to be fulfilled by those countries as well as Qatar, which is expected to open the world's largest gas facility in 2025.
Even with the flurry of visits to Africa from European leaders, some of the projects and proposals there come with significant hurdles.
Italy's Eni, which is partially state-owned, bought a floating natural gas platform off the coast of the Republic of Congo for more than half a billion dollars. Company executives and government officials, who visited after the outbreak of war, began to fast track the project so that it could deliver gas by next year. By 2024, the company also expects to double its imports from Algeria, which is already connected to Italy across the Mediterranean Sea by a pipeline.
Eni executives are discussing a second floating terminal in Mozambique even as an Islamist insurgency in the country's north continues to threaten a sprawling onshore energy project there. Offshore platforms typically yield less gas but are quicker to set up.
"With the war, suddenly there was new urgency," said an Eni spokeswoman who declined to be identified, citing company policy. "It accelerated a shift to new gas sources that was years in the making."
The visit to Senegal by the German chancellor has not yet yielded a deal, Senegal's energy adviser said. The Senegalese government has been working with B.P. and Kosmos Energy, a U.S. company, to develop a gas field off its coast that is expected to start production next year, according to Kosmos.
The war's ripple effects have also resurrected talks on a long-dormant trans-Saharan pipeline project that would supply Europe with Nigerian gas via Niger, another country on the German chancellor's itinerary - and another one battling a metastasizing Islamist insurgency.
Last month, Mr. Kerry traveled to Congo, one of the most populous and least-electrified countries in Africa, for a climate conference and asked President Félix Tshisekedi to remove the blocks from auction that are in environmentally sensitive areas.
An aide to Mr. Tshisekedi said the blocks remain on auction.
In an interview in September, the Congolese president said his country had no plans to endanger important environmental areas but had every right to exploit its gas and oil, just as the United States has done. "Requesting us to change our behavior and protect our forest, and not provide the resources and the know-how - it's delusional," Mr. Tshisekedi said.
#20
Members of a propane industry lobbying group strategized to downplay the full climate impacts of propane and market it as "renewable" or "clean energy", recordings reviewed by the climate newsletter Heated and the Guardian reveal.
The Propane Education & Research Council (Perc), a US lobbying group, has spent nearly $30m over the last two years on advertisements for fossil fuel, according to data compiled by Drilled, a multimedia reporting project focused on climate accountability. The ads often promote propane, the vast majority of which is a by-product of natural gas or crude oil refining, as a form of clean and renewable energy.
But in a public November 2022 meeting recorded by the Energy and Policy Institute, Perc board members acknowledged that that characterization was inaccurate.
"Twenty-five percent [of people consider] natural gas to be renewable, in this millennial and gen Z bucket," an unidentified Perc board member said. "There's a perception out there - not reality, but that's perception. We can attach to that for propane."
"You can't say natural gas is renewable," Perc board member Leslie Woodward cautioned.
"Perception," the unidentified board member repeated.
Erin Hatcher, Perc's senior vice-president of communications and marketing, agreed that propane should be perceived as clean energy. "We don't want to be in that coal bucket," she is heard saying on the recording. "We want to be in that clean energy bucket."
In a comment to Heated and the Guardian, Hatcher said she "did not recall any kind of comment" about mistaking propane as renewable. "Our concern about perception is that all fuels are demonized."
She added: "There's no attempt to mislead whatsoever. It's to educate, because the narrative that predominates the news is that there's only one way to a clean future, and we don't believe that." Woodward did not respond to requests for comment, and Hatcher said she couldn't identify the other board members who spoke at the meeting.
To stabilize a safe climate, scientists say the world's energy systems must reach net-zero greenhouse emissions by the year 2050. The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said achieving net zero by 2050 will require "a substantial reduction of overall fossil fuel use".
Propane is a fossil gas, commonly liquified for use in heating and cooking. Typically a by-product of natural gas or crude oil refining, propane can also be made from non-fossil sources like plant, seed and animal oils - though currently, only 0.04% of it is, according to estimates from the EPA and the US Energy Information Administration.
Propane - even "renewable propane" made from plants or cooking oil - emits carbon dioxide and other environmentally harmful fossil fumes. Propane made from fossil fuels emits less carbon than coal or diesel, but more than natural gas when burned as fuel, according to the US Energy Information Administration. In 2022, CO2 emissions from propane in the US were a tiny fraction of the carbon emissions from other fossil fuels, but that's because the US consumes far less propane than gas and oil - not because propane is necessarily cleaner.
Still, Perc has invested millions in a multiyear strategy to rebrand propane from what it's called a "dirty fossil fuel" to a so-called clean energy source. According to Drilled, Perc's annual ad spending increased more than 17-fold from 2021 to 2022-23, from $1.7m to nearly $30m.
In 2022 and 2023, Perc bought ads touting the "clean energy" potential of propane across 450 media properties, according to Drilled's data, including more than $9m on YouTube channels, including YouTube Kids; $4.7m on Fox News; $2.6m on Southern Living; $1.5m on NBC; $979,000 on USA Today; and $746,000 on ESPN.
A spokesperson for Google, which owns YouTube, said the company bans ads that deny climate change, or ads that claim human beings or greenhouse gases don't contribute to global warming. "This policy does not prohibit other climate-related topics, including promotions of various energy sources," the spokesperson said.
The increased ad spending is concerning to clean-energy and misinformation experts, who tell Heated and the Guardian that Perc's claims are misleading. Propane is not renewable and does not amount to clean energy, they say, nor is renewable propane a realistic or scalable climate solution.
?"The fossil fuel industry has been a true trailblazer on one thing over the last few decades - how to greenwash," said Wren Montgomery, an associate professor of sustainability at Western University. "Pitching propane as 'clean energy' seems to be just their latest greenwashing scheme."
Energy and Policy Institute research manager Charlie Spatz, who attended Perc's 2022 board meeting, said the fossil fuel industry has long tried to brand its products as renewable. "And so we've seen Perc, in some respects, catch up with the oil industry and natural gas industry to present their product as renewable, when in reality that product is not available in quantities that consumers can even access at this point."
"Nothing is 100% clean," said Hatcher of Perc. She said that every energy source has "some carbon involved, whether it's in making a solar panel or a wind turbine or a dam".
But Hatcher stopped short of calling propane "renewable" energy, even though Perc uses the term in its marketing. "Nobody here is trying to pretend that propane is not a fossil fuel-based fuel," she said. "We're not trying to pretend that it is renewable."
When asked to clarify whether propane is as climate-friendly as wind or solar power, Hatcher said: "At the actual operation? No."
In July 2021, Perc circulated an internal video calling electrification efforts "an existential threat" and introducing talking points touting propane as "a clean energy solution for everyone".
The purpose of the rebrand was to attract a new audience for propane: people who care about the climate crisis. In 2022, Perc presented market research revealing that a promising number of younger, climate-conscious millennials had positive opinions of the fuel.
?????? ?????
 "We started thinking, is it possible they don't know the origins of propane?" Hatcher told Perc's board in its November 2022 annual meeting in Destin, Florida. She presented the results of a survey of 1,000 US adults, which discovered that 97% didn't consider propane a fossil fuel, even though most of it is. (When she spoke with Heated and the Guardian, Hatcher disputed the 97% figure heard on the recording, but declined to provide the marketing survey she can be heard citing in her presentation.)
There was just one obstacle: despite overall positive views of propane, only 9% of Perc's survey respondents thought propane was renewable energy, Hatcher said. So Perc board members discussed a strategy to market propane from renewable sources in addition to fossil fuel-derived propane.
"When they understand that propane is not only a low-carbon fuel, in the conventional version, but renewable offers even greater benefits, environmental benefits, we can change their opinion of this energy," said Hatcher.
A second unidentified Perc board member in the meeting pushed back on Hatcher. "When they Google propane, and they see it's a fossil fuel, 99% of them [are] going to be immediately turned off propane, whether it is renewable propane or not," he said.
"We're in trouble if we don't win them over, that's the bottom line," said Hatcher. "We're really in trouble. So we need to get them on our side and kind of educate them about the benefits of propane."
Perc's position that propane has less of a climate impact than methane gas isn't true, according to energy experts.
"It is not the lowest greenhouse gas fossil fuel. It's somewhere between natural gas and diesel," said Nikita Pavlenko, the program lead at the International Council on Clean Transportation.
Even "renewable" propane is not zero carbon the way solar or wind energy is. It still emits carbon dioxide, though in smaller amounts than propane made from oil or gas. Nor is "renewable" propane a "widely accessible" alternative, as Perc also claims. The amount of "renewable" propane produced in the US is negligible - about 4.5m gallons in 2022, according to the EPA. The US propane supply derived from fossil fuel was about 12.7bn gallons that same year, according to the US Energy Information Administration.
"It's quite common to promise renewable natural gas, or something like renewable propane," said Pavlenko, because the people making those promises rarely have to produce it. "They often do very little to secure supply."
The amount of propane that's currently made from the camelina plant - the low-carbon alternative featured in many Perc ads, including in the New York Times - is even smaller. "There's a lot of promises being made about camelina as a feedstock for biofuel and there's very little, if any, being processed right now," Pavlenko said. "The camelina is largely theoretical at this point." (The amount of camelina propane produced in the US is so small, it's lumped under "other" feedstocks by agencies that collect data on alternative fuels.)
When asked about these ads, a Times spokesperson said that the newspaper "prohibits advertising that is intentionally misleading, deceptive or contains false information". Perc paid the Times more than $163,000 for ads between 2022 and 2023, according to media-monitoring data compiled by Drilled and reviewed by Heated and the Guardian. Hatcher characterizes these numbers as "estimates".
When the numbers are added together, experts say, Perc's claims that propane is "clean energy", "environmentally friendly" and an important part of "the path to zero carbon emissions" amount to nothing more than greenwashing.
Still, Perc is redoubling its efforts to rebrand propane as environmentally friendly in 2024.
Documents reviewed by Heated and the Guardian show that Perc is increasing its self-reported advertising budget to $12.8m next year to reach new audiences, including "eco-inclined" homeowners. (Perc's self-reported ad budget does not include a $6.4m category it calls "environmental campaigns" or $1.3m for "thought leadership".) The budget includes payments to at least 15 influencers, including stars of HGTV home improvement shows and celebrity chefs. Perc is also rolling out new marketing tactics, like advertising in AccuWeather severe weather alerts.
Perc isn't just aiming this rhetoric at consumers. It's also developing it for lawmakers who have the power to regulate, and ultimately phase out, fossil fuels. This tactic has been successfully used for years by the natural gas industry, said Faye Holder, a program manager at InfluenceMap.
"All these talking points that you see about 'clean gas' and 'gas is lower emissions'" are used in advertising, said Holder. "But they are also all used in the direct lobbying to policymakers [making] climate policies that would otherwise threaten the role and the business of gas."
This advertising is "very misleading to consumers," said Holder. "Calling fossil gas a green climate solution is disinformation because it's just not true."
Hatcher expressed frustration with people who don't share Perc's vision of a world where coal and diesel are replaced by propane, with the goal of combating the climate crisis. "We're trying to be part of the solution," she said several times in interviews.
But if the solution to climate change involves winding down fossil fuels entirely, which is the scientific consensus, Hatcher is less sure about the timeline. "Is there a world without propane? Possibly," she said. "When? Who knows?"
#21
Europe is watching the skies for a gremlin that can roil its energy markets and stoke political tensions between neighboring countries. This weather phenomenon, known as the Dunkelflaute, has become a source of frustration to government ministers and a potential pitfall on their journey to cleaner energy.
A German term that translates to "dark doldrums," Dunkelflaute refers to a spate of calm days when dense clouds descend over northern Europe. This weather pattern may occur two to 10 times a year, usually in the fall and winter, and lasts 24 hours or longer.
In the past, these spells of murky quiet would have made little difference to energy markets in Europe. But in recent years, as countries like Germany and Britain have spent billions to tackle climate change by shifting to cleaner sources of energy, the Dunkelflaute has gained notoriety.
A generation ago, Europe relied on steady, predictable flows of energy from nuclear and fossil fuel plants. Now, much of the region's power comes from solar arrays and wind farms, whose output varies with the whims of the weather.
Advocates of wind and solar power stress that these technologies have lower costs because they do not burn gas or coal, but they can contribute to large price swings in the marketplace for power.
During the gloomy stillness of a Dunkelflaute, solar panels produce little power and wind turbines slow to a halt. Without these two mainstays of renewable energy, grid operators need to call on backup power plants like natural-gas-fired generators.
The cost of running these power plants is higher, which drives up prices when renewable sources are falling behind, said Steve Moody, trading director at Conrad Energy, a power trading company in Abingdon, England, that supplies electricity to the grid through batteries and other sources. "You will see high prices in periods of scarcity," he said.
During a stretch of low wind in mid-December, for instance, British power prices briefly jumped to 485 pounds per megawatt-hour, well above an average of about £70 over the last year, according to Drax Electric Insights, a website that tracks power.
And Germany has suffered a particularly gloomy fall and winter this year, with electricity production down more than 5 percent compared with the same time the previous year. A Dunkelflaute in mid-December caused electricity prices to jump to 14 times their average.
Because a Dunkelflaute can blanket several countries at the same time, its effects can ripple through much of northern Europe, putting pressure on power systems. A Dunkelflaute in early November led to price surges in Denmark, the Netherlands and Belgium, as well as in Britain.
These weather systems often occur when the temperature is cold, testing the capacity of the power grid because affected countries may draw large volumes of gas. A Dunkelflaute, which can last several weeks, "can have potential impact on security of supply," said an official of Britain's National Energy System Operator during an industry webinar held this month to discuss their effects.
The growing use of renewable energy can also lead to times when wind and solar generation outpaces demand, leading to extremely low prices - a potential boon to consumers (but a problem for investors in power generation who may see lower profits than expected).
But attention has lately focused on the downsides, specifically that high power prices in countries like Germany and Denmark can spill over into markets like Norway's and Sweden's, straining relationships between neighboring countries.
To help ward off events like the Dunkelflaute, European neighbors have linked their power grids through a network of cables, often laid under the North and Baltic Seas. These conduits are intended to share power surpluses - like those that at times arise from Norway's hydropower riches - and address deficits. The intent is to ensure sufficient supplies and smoother prices.
Earlier in this decade, for instance, a cable was constructed to bring Norwegian hydropower to Britain during quiet wind spells, while sending surplus wind energy the other direction.
A web of such cables now exists, and energy experts say more will be needed.
But even the strategy of sharing power comes with a drawback. When a power-hungry country like Germany sucks large volumes of electricity from its Scandinavian neighbors, this interconnected system can drive up the prices in the exporting countries, angering consumers.
 "When there is no wind, we get high electricity prices with this failed electricity system," Ebba Busch, Sweden's economy minister, wrote in a post on social media.
Ms. Busch also blamed insufficient electricity and resulting high prices in Germany on Berlin's decision to shut off its nuclear reactors last year, despite an energy crunch in the country caused by Russia cutting off natural gas supplies as part of its dispute with the West over the war in Ukraine.
Some power-exporting countries are threatening to turn to protectionism to buffer their citizens. Politicians in Norway have cast doubt on continuing to operate cables that bring Norwegian hydropower to Denmark, while Sweden has postponed building a second cable to Germany. In France, officials of the far-right National Rally party have also proposed curbing electricity exports from the country's fleet of nuclear power stations.
The high recent prices have "created this kind of political backlash against cables," said Amund Vik, a former Norwegian deputy energy minister and now a senior adviser to Eurasia Group, a political risk firm. Yet "the European energy system needs integration to be secure, as you do the energy transition" he added.
Analysts like Mr. Vik are skeptical that there will be a major retreat from the interdependent European power market that has been constructed over decades. But the friction may complicate the shift to cleaner energy. And with several more months of winter ahead, the next Dunkelflaute could be right around the corner.
#22
WASHINGTON - While world leaders have vowed to scale back the use of fossil fuels to help keep a lid on global warming, a drastic upheaval in the markets for oil, natural gas and coal could complicate the shift toward cleaner sources o energy.
Global oil prices have soared to their highest level in seven years, nearing $90 per barrel, as fears grow of a Russian invasion of Ukraine. Europe is in the grips of a severe natural gas crunch that has roiled energy markets worldwide. And global demand for coal, the dirtiest of all fossil fuels, has surged to record highs as economies bounce back from pandemic lows.
There's a broader lesson here, energy experts said. Even as governments and businesses invest in low-carbon energy sources like wind and solar power, the world will remain deeply reliant on fossil fuels for years to come. Unless that transition is carefully managed, many countries could face volatile energy prices and other disruptions that, in turn, threaten to undermine support for policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
After the coronavirus pandemic struck in 2020, global investment in oil and gas projects declined by 30 percent and has been slow to recover. But global demand for oil has snapped back faster and is projected to reach records this year, as economies rebound. Supplies have struggled to keep up.
On top of that, recent geopolitical turmoil - including supply disruptions in Kazakhstan and fears of a Russian invasion of Ukraine - have lifted oil prices to their highest levels since 2014.
Although Western oil companies have been drilling fewer wells since the pandemic began, partly held back by investors wary of unprofitable projects, high prices could shift that calculus. On Tuesday, Exxon Mobil announced it would increase spending on new oil wells and other projects by up to 45 percent this year after reporting $23 billion in profits for 2021, its best result in seven years.

In the United States, rising gasoline prices - currently averaging $3.40 per gallon, a dollar higher than a year ago - have been a drag on the approval ratings of President Biden, who is struggling to persuade Congress to pass climate policies aimed at reducing fossil-fuel emissions. At the same time, the Biden administration has defended moves to issue new oil and gas permits on public lands, although those efforts have been slowed by federal courts.
But high oil prices aren't always bad news for clean energy. They can also depress oil demand by, for example, pushing people to buy electric vehicles that don't require gasoline. Last year, electric cars made up 20 percent of all new sales in Europe and 15 percent of new sales in China, according to BloombergNEF, a research group.
A Gas Shortage Roils Europe
In recent months, the world has struggled with spiking prices for natural gas, a fuel used in both power plants and home heating, that has caused ripple effects across the globe. Utility bills have soared from Italy to South Korea, while fertilizer plants in Britain and Germany have had to curtail operations. (Natural gas is a key ingredient in nitrogen-based fertilizer.)
The causes of the gas crunch are numerous: Global demand has rebounded faster than supply since the pandemic began; lower output from hydropower dams in China and Brazil have led to a surge of gas imports; a cold snap last spring across Europe increased demand and reduced gas inventories.
The crisis is particularly acute in Europe, where natural gas prices are now five times as high as they were a year ago. Officials are racing to procure new shipments of gas from overseas in case Russia, which provides one-third of Europe's natural gas, curtails supplies in the event of a conflict over Ukraine.
There are also signs the gas crunch could undermine unity within the European Union over policies to fight climate change.
Officials are currently debating a sweeping new set of clean-energy measures aimed at cutting emissions by 2030. Some nations, like Spain, have called for a faster shift away from fossil fuels to reduce Europe's exposure to gas markets. But others, like Poland, have urged a delay in stricter climate action amid the crisis.
And there's the possibility that skyrocketing energy prices could bolster unrest akin to the "Yellow Vests" protests in 2018, which forced the French government to backtrack on plans to increase fuel taxes as a way to reduce emissions.
Across the globe, rising natural gas prices have provided a boost to coal, which typically produces twice as much carbon dioxide as gas when burned for electricity, driving up planet-warming emissions.
Global coal consumption reached a record in 2021 and was on track to rise further in 2022, the International Energy Agency recently said. That was partly because electricity demand is surging in countries like China and India, and investment in renewable energy has not kept pace. But high natural gas prices have also spurred many electric utilities to turn to coal.
The United States is one example. Over the past decade, as advances in fracking led to a boom in domestic gas production, the country has become one of the world's largest exporters of liquefied natural gas.
Those exports have become a key source of global supply during the latest crisis. But they have also boosted natural gas prices at home, which in turn means that some utilities are finding it economical to run their coal plants more often. Last year, U.S. coal power emissions increased 17 percent after years of falling steadily, putting the country further off course from reaching its climate goals.
"It really illustrates how much we've depended on cheap natural gas prices to keep coal in decline," said Kate Larsen, a partner at the Rhodium Group, a research firm. "Overall, we still expect coal to decline further in the years ahead, but unless there are new policies put in place to clean up the power sector, the coal industry could see a bit of a lifeline if there are big swings in the gas market."
A Bumpy Transition
In a recent essay, Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency, argued that climate change policies were not to blame for the current global energy crisis. But, he warned, "that does not mean that the road to net zero emissions will be smooth."
One problem, he said, is that while many countries have cut back on investments in fossil fuels like oil and gas in recent years, energy demand is still rising, and nations have not spent enough on cleaner sources like wind, solar or nuclear power to fill the gap. If the world wants to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels - a goal many leaders have endorsed to avoid the worst consequences of climate change - global investment in clean energy would need to triple from current levels by 2030.
Mr. Birol also noted that, because many countries will remain reliant on fossil fuels for years to come, they will need to take steps to prepare for market disruptions, such as improved gas storage in Europe or energy efficiency measures that can blunt the damage from rising prices. "This needs to happen quickly," he wrote, "or global energy markets will face a turbulent and volatile period ahead."
#23
If there is anywhere in the country primed to welcome the clean energy transition, it is Penobscot Bay in Maine. Electricity prices there are high and volatile. The ocean waters are warming fast, threatening the lobster fishery. Miles offshore, winds blow strong enough to heat every home and power every car in the state.
For more than 15 years, researchers at the University of Maine have been honing scale models of floating wind turbines inspired by oil rigs. They are now confident they can mass-produce turbine blades the length of football fields and float them miles into the ocean. It is the kind of breakthrough in clean energy technology that is allowing a much faster transition to renewables than many believed possible, aided by state officials eager to pioneer a floating wind industry.
One key to harnessing that wind lies at the end of a causeway jutting into the bay, on a mostly undeveloped island where eagles fish offshore and people walk in the quiet shade. Many officials see this spot, known as Sears Island, as the ideal site to build and launch a flotilla of turbines that could significantly lessen Maine's reliance on fossil fuels.
Standing in their way are environmental groups and local residents, all of whom are committed to a clean energy future and worried about the rapid warming of the earth. Still, they want the state to pick a different site for its so-called wind port, citing the tranquillity of Sears Island and its popularity and accessibility as a recreation destination.
On a recent summer morning one conservationist against the plan, Scott Dickerson, sat on a picnic bench and predicted environmental groups would sue to thwart development of the island, as they had many times in the past.
"And that, as you can imagine, is going to run the clock," he said, costing the state valuable time that could be saved by looking elsewhere.
After years of fits and starts, the transition to renewable energy like wind and solar power is finally shifting into full gear in many parts of the world, including the United States, which has been buoyed by massive new subsidies from the Biden administration. But around the country, the effort is being slowed by a host of logistical, political and economic challenges.
Breaks in supply chains have stalled big projects. Historically low unemployment makes it hard to hire workers to build or install new turbines or solar panels. Shortcomings in the power grid can block newly generated electricity from reaching customers. Federal, state and local regulations, including often byzantine permitting requirements, threaten to delay some construction for years. So do the court battles that almost inevitably follow those permitting decisions.
These problems are not unique to the United States. In Europe, orders for new turbines dropped unexpectedly last year as developers struggled with inflation and sluggish permitting. In parts of China, a growing fraction of electricity from turbines and solar panels is being wasted because the grid lacks capacity. In Australia, clean energy companies have complained about a shortage of skilled workers.
At the same time, it tends to take longer to build solar arrays, wind farms, car chargers and transmission lines in the United States than in China, India and Europe, a recent analysis by the International Energy Agency found.
But no hurdle to a clean energy transition at the speed and scale scientists say is needed to avert catastrophic warming is easier to see than the growing local backlash to large-scale wind and solar projects, like the one roiling Sears Island.
The problem boils down to this: If lawmakers want to ramp up renewables as fast and cheaply as possible, they'll need to bulldoze or build over some places that people treasure.
From the desert suburbs outside Los Angeles to the rolling hills along the Ohio River to the Jersey Shore, residents are crying out against solar farms, wind turbines and new power lines. They are suing, passing laws and taking other steps to stop or slow projects, some of which would power the nation's largest towns and cities with renewables.
"Decisions that are not meant to be personal - they're being experienced on a very personal level," said Alison Bates, an environmental studies professor at Colby College in Waterville, Maine, who is studying ways to communicate with residents about offshore wind proposals.
Many opponents of renewable energy, she added, "are worried about the impacts to their very way of life."
Roadside opposition to renewable energy projects near Baldwin City, Kan.
While Americans broadly support renewable energy, polls show, they are less enthusiastic about having it in their backyard. One survey from 2021 found that only 24 percent of Americans were willing to live within a mile of a solar farm; the number dropped to 17 percent for wind farms.
Such resistance is often rooted in anxieties about broader social and economic change in communities where families have lived for generations. But in some cases, like lawsuits trying to stop wind farm development off Massachusetts, groups with funding from fossil fuel interests have stoked fear. Those efforts are their own sort of obstacle to renewables: an attempt by incumbent energy players to protect their market share, even if the economics have turned against them.
Another barrier is determined opposition by many top Republicans, including congressional leaders and their presidential front-runner. They have consistently tried to expand fossil fuel production and block efforts to promote renewables, and they have vowed to overturn President Biden's climate agenda if they regain full control of Congress and the White House. While some leaders in conservative states have welcomed development of renewables, others have passed laws making it easier for local communities to fight them.
A study this spring from Columbia University's Sabin Center for Climate Change Law found a 35 percent increase last year in local ordinances restricting renewable energy development, as well as a nearly 40 percent rise in wind or solar projects facing "serious organized opposition." If such restrictions became widespread, another recent study found, they could block up to 270 gigawatts of new onshore wind power over the next three decades, which is roughly twice the amount installed nationwide today.
'A Critical Technology'
The University of Maine's wave pool and wind tunnel are part of an engineering center focused on green technology.
Accelerating a clean energy future takes much more than technological advancement. It requires building a new arm of the economy: an assembly line that starts with raw materials and ends with a fleet of panels to soak up the sun or towering turbines to lasso the wind, wired into homes and businesses.
Every stop on that assembly line presents risks that could delay or derail new projects.
Maine's offshore wind push has been hastened by energy shocks. In 2022, Russia's invasion of Ukraine sent natural gas and home heating rates soaring. Because fossil fuel prices largely dictate energy costs in the Northeast, residential electricity prices for most Maine residents have nearly doubled in recent years.
Onshore wind and solar power have helped reduce electric costs, but the state cannot feasibly reach its renewables goals - and less expensive energy bills - without offshore generation. That's particularly true because wind blows strongest offshore in the coldest months, when demand for heat is at its highest.
"We see offshore wind as a critical technology," said Dan Burgess, the director of the Maine Governor's Energy Office.
Environmental groups, labor unions, some business leaders and a bipartisan coalition of state lawmakers locked arms this year to approve incentives and guarantees to help speed the development of Maine's offshore wind industry, which could create thousands of skilled jobs in the state.
Renewable technology "with zero impact on the environment" is impossible, said Habib Dagher of the University of Maine's Advanced Structures and Composites Center.
Those have helped propel Gov. Janet Mills, a Democrat, as her administration tries to install three gigawatts of offshore wind power - enough to power about 750,000 homes - in the Gulf of Maine by 2040. The turbines will be far out enough to avoid the state's prime lobster fishing grounds and mostly disappear from view.
The climate bill that Mr. Biden signed last year provided hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks and grants to help make a wide variety of low-carbon technologies - such as solar panels, wind turbines, nuclear reactors or batteries - ultimately cheaper than fossil fuels.
A recent analysis found that it would cost less for electric utilities to build new wind and solar farms than to operate most of the existing coal-fired power plants - a stunning shift from 15 years ago, when burning coal was the cheapest way to make electricity.
But after years of rapid growth, installations of wind, solar and batteries slowed by 15 percent last year, according to the American Clean Power Association, a trade group.
"There's a lot of capital ready to flow," said Gregory Wetstone, president of the American Council on Renewable Energy, another trade group. "But to get these projects going, you need to get them permitted, you need to get them connected to the grid, you need workers, you need access to supply chains. All of that can still be quite difficult."
'Too Much Optimism'
Mack Point near Searsport, Maine, is another proposed staging ground for offshore wind turbines.
In Maine, many of those challenges are concentrated at one choke point: where to put a new wind port, which state officials have not decided on.
Offshore turbines need a large slab of land where they can be built and launched to sea. That site must connect to highways, to truck in materials, but also sit beside deep water.
The state's two main contenders are in Searsport, about 30 miles south of Bangor.
One site is an industrial area, Mack Point, clearly visible from Sears Island. It is the spot many locals and conservationists prefer. The company that owns it says it could be easily converted to build and ship offshore turbines.
But some officials have warned that it could be difficult for Mack Point to secure needed permits from the Environmental Protection Agency, the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal agencies in order to dredge the bay and build new port facilities.
"I don't know if it can be permitted on Mack Point," said James Gillway, the town manager of Searsport.
Across the country, clean energy projects of all types are tied up in lengthy permitting processes. For offshore wind, it can take up to 10 years to secure approval before construction can begin. Elsewhere, many nuclear power companies are seeking to develop a new generation of smaller, safer reactors, but outdated regulations could make approval difficult, experts warn. Some solar developers are wary of building on federally owned land in the West because permitting can be so onerous.
Some environmentalists say that these stringent reviews are crucial for protecting fragile ecosystems or public health - and that such regulations have been useful for blocking fossil fuel projects in the past. Yet others concerned about climate change say the balance has tipped too far toward paralysis.
U.S. Clean Energy Projects Can Take Longer to Get Off the Ground
Permitting has proved especially difficult for the nation's antiquated and fragmented electric grid. The United States has some of the best renewable energy resources in the world, including gusty winds in the Great Plains and scorching sun in the Southwest. But to tap those resources, which are often far from population centers, developers will need to build thousands of miles of new high-voltage transmission lines.
Yet building long-distance power lines can be a brutal slog. Reviews and permitting alone can take a decade or longer, and any state or county in the path of the lines can throw up roadblocks. Since 2000, the United States has barely built any major transmission lines that connect different regions of the country.
The 17-year journey of a wind farm project in New Mexico helps explain why. Initially proposed in 2006, the SunZia project entailed building a vast wind farm in New Mexico along with a 550-mile power line to deliver electricity to Arizona and California. This spring, after years of legal battles and route changes, SunZia received its final federal permit. It is now expected to be completed by 2026.
"I don't know if there's a single major transmission project out there that's been done in less than a decade," Hunter Armistead, the chief executive of Pattern Energy, which is developing the project, said at a recent conference. He later added, "There's too much optimism in how fast people think this is actually going to happen, and I think that's dangerous."
Projects that manage to secure permits still need materials and workers, both of which are scarce.
B.C. Broussard, the chief technology officer at Intertie, a California-based company that builds and installs microgrids for commercial energy storage, said that a shortfall of semiconductors last year slowed production for the firm and its competitors. He said the industry was now dealing with a roughly six-month wait for components like panel boards, disconnect switches and combiners. In addition, energy storage companies like his have been competing with electric vehicle makers for batteries and cells.
A crew running diagnostics at Enel's solar-power site in Riesel, Texas, which contains 1.2 million panels.
"There's not enough to go around," he said.
Supply chains are being further stretched by an effort to reduce America's dependence on China, which now pumps out the vast majority of the world's solar panels, battery minerals and wind turbines.
Hiring woes have compounded the problem. In recent years, ReVision Energy, which installs solar panels and heat pumps across the Northeast, has started training dozens of new workers in house, offering apprenticeships and helping employees get their electrician licenses.
But it still can't find enough skilled electricians to keep up with soaring demand: The wait time for installing new rooftop solar panels has risen from around three months to around 10 in some areas, said Vaughan Woodruff, ReVision's vice president of work force development.
Perhaps more than anything else, the question of where to place large new developments looms over the clean energy economy.
In the past, traditional coal, gas and nuclear plants could be built close to cities, taking up relatively little land. Energy infrastructure, like power plants, was often dropped into low-income areas and communities of color. People who were already marginalized disproportionately suffered from pollution, reduced home values and other costs linked to that infrastructure.
Wind and solar farms need far more space - typically thousands of acres - to produce the same amount of power. They are more likely to be located in rural or coastal areas, putting new communities face to face with energy infrastructure for the first time, and unhappily so.
In California, sunny San Bernardino County recently barred any new solar projects that don't serve local needs from occupying more than a million acres of land. In Kansas, where wind generates nearly half the state's power, at least 20 counties have restricted or banned new projects.
Wind and solar farms need far more space to produce the same amount of power as fossil fuel plants. The Riesel site extends across 4,263 acres.
State officials in Ohio passed a law that allows county commissioners to block large-scale wind and solar projects but not fossil fuel drilling. Opponents of one solar plan in Ohio barraged state officials with complaints about falling property values and dark plots linked to China; they said anyone looking to lease their land to solar companies could no longer call themselves "farmers."
Many of those objections are rooted in online misinformation, often promoted by longtime critics of renewable products who are sometimes linked to the fossil fuel industry. But in interviews, some opponents of the Ohio solar farm expressed a much simpler rationale: They saw only downsides and nothing in it for them.
Opposition is also rising in urban areas and liberal states, where concerns about climate change run high. In Atlantic City, N.J., groups have protested and sued to stop federal approval of as many as 98 turbines in close offshore waters. They cite hits to tourism and claim damage to whales, with no firm scientific evidence behind them - but with the encouragement of some conservative media figures like Tucker Carlson.
In New York, efforts to install public electric vehicle chargers have run into intense opposition from groups that want to radically reduce traffic and see the technology as a way to extend the hegemony of the automobile.
As a result, Manhattan has only seven fast chargers, according to the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, and five of those are open only to Teslas.
Biden aides say they are confident the benefits of the projects will win over those opposed to having them near their backyard.
"There are a lot of creative ways to site clean energy," Ali Zaidi, the White House national climate adviser, said in an interview. He added, "The economics are powerful and ultimately will prevail."
'It Saddens Me'

Kayakers prepared for a sunset launch in Searsport, near Sears Island.
In Searsport, many residents fear that state officials will bypass Mack Point, which sits on private land and would need to be leased for millions of dollars a year - costs that would probably be passed on to utility customers.
Sears Island, in contrast, is owned by the state. Under a previous agreement with conservation groups, two-thirds of its woods and beaches are to be a nature preserve. The other third is zoned for a port.
Supporters of choosing the island site include Habib Dagher, a godfather of Maine's offshore wind efforts and the founding executive director of the University of Maine's Advanced Structures and Composites Center. He suggested it was worth trading the existing open space of the island for lower energy prices and reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
"All of us would like to think that we can have renewable energy with zero impact on the environment - as you know, it's not possible, right?" Dr. Dagher said in an interview at his wind lab. "So our goal, and our challenge, is, how do we minimize impact on environment as we embark on this transformational energy system?"
Conservation groups have fought development on Sears Island for decades, beating back a nuclear power plant, a gas import terminal and more. They reject the idea that they must lose that fight now - even as they lament climate change.
Rolf Olsen is a retired marketing executive and an avid day hiker. He kayaks and likes to swim in Penobscot Bay after mowing his lawn. He drives a white plug-in Toyota Prius and is vice president of a group called Friends of Sears Island, and he sat on a state advisory panel over where to locate the wind port, which he says should be at Mack Point.
On a recent hike, he described what a Sears Island port might look like, in place of the oaks and the birches.
"I have a picture in my mind's eye. You know, it's huge, flat, towering concrete and steel," he said. "It saddens me."
So, he added, does the warming of the planet.
"I have a granddaughter who's 3. She's going to have to live in a different world."
#24
Demand for electricity around the world is rising faster than expected, making it harder for countries to slash their emissions and keep global warming in check, the International Energy Agency said on Wednesday.
Over the next decade, the world is poised to add the equivalent of Japan's annual electricity demand to grids each year, driven by surging power needs for new factories, electric vehicles, air-conditioners and data centers, according to the agency's annual World Energy Outlook, a comprehensive report on global energy trends.
In all, the agency now expects global electricity demand to be 6 percent higher in 2035 than it forecast last year.
It's not all dire news for climate change: The report concludes that countries are likely to build enough low-emissions power plants by the end of the decade - primarily solar, wind and nuclear power - to match that rise in demand. Rapid growth in renewable energy should at least prevent global emissions from rising drastically and could cause coal, oil and natural gas use to peak this decade.
But to stop global warming, many countries have pledged to reduce their emissions to zero by around midcentury. That goal is slipping out of reach: Countries would need to build low-carbon electricity sources twice as fast as they're currently doing between now and 2035 to meet their climate targets.
"In energy history, we've witnessed the age of coal and the age of oil," said Fatih Birol, the executive director of the International Energy Agency. "We're now moving at speed into the age of electricity, which will define the global energy system going forward."
Electricity demand has historically gone up as societies grow more affluent. But a few recent trends have accelerated that growth, the report said.
Rising temperatures, fueled by global warming, are spurring more people to buy air-conditioners and to run them more often. In India, air-conditioning sales doubled after a series of brutal heat waves this year.
Electric vehicles are also becoming more popular: While sales growth has slowed this year in the United States and Europe, it's a different story in China. By the end of this year, half of all new cars sold in China are projected to be electric, and roughly 60 percent of plug-in vehicles sold there are now cheaper than their gasoline-powered counterparts.
Tech companies are also building power-hungry data centers at a frenetic pace, driven by interest in artificial intelligence. While data centers account for just 1 percent of global electricity demand, they are often concentrated in clusters and can strain local grids.
All that extra demand makes it tougher to tackle climate change.
Previously, the agency expected that global consumption of coal, the dirtiest of fossil fuels, would drop significantly by 2030 as wind and solar power expanded. But with electricity demand rising quickly in places like China and India, coal use is now projected to decline more gradually. Some utilities in the United States are extending the life of coal-fired power plants that had been headed for retirement.
Global carbon-dioxide emissions are expected to fall just 3 percent by 2030 under policies that nations are currently pursuing, the agency said. Emissions need to fall 33 percent this decade to meet the ambitious climate goals that governments have agreed to at United Nations climate talks.
"With higher energy use, even fast renewables growth doesn't translate to fast falls in carbon-dioxide emissions," said Dave Jones, global insight director at Ember, an energy think tank.
Speeding up the production of clean energy is difficult in many countries. In China, which accounted for 60 percent of the growth in wind and solar power last year, electric grids need significant upgrades to handle fluctuations in renewable output. In Europe, sales of electric heat pumps slowed sharply in the first half of this year as gas prices eased. In the United States, a lack of transmission lines is hindering wind projects.
Big changes in fossil-fuel markets are also looming. Growing electric vehicle sales could cause global oil demand to plateau this decade, the agency said. The United States and Qatar are currently building so many terminals to export liquefied natural gas that the world could see an "oversupply" of gas later this decade, it said. That could push down global energy prices, offering relief to countries that faced painful price spikes after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Fossil-fuel producers have cast doubt on the International Energy Agency's prediction that oil and gas use would peak by 2030. The agency is sticking with that forecast, though it acknowledges there are plenty of uncertainties.
Countries representing half of global energy demand are holding elections in 2024. That includes the United States, where former President Donald J. Trump has promised to repeal federal policies favoring renewable power and electric cars and encourage more oil and gas drilling if he returns to office.
As a result, the report said, "there is more near-term uncertainty than usual" over how global energy policies will evolve.
#25
It was only three months ago that world leaders met at the Glasgow climate summit and made ambitious pledges to reduce fossil fuel use. The perils of a warming planet are no less calamitous now, but the debate about the critically important transition to renewable energy has taken a back seat to energy security as Russia - Europe's largest energy supplier - threatens to start a major confrontation with the West over Ukraine while oil prices are climbing toward $100 a barrel.
For more than a decade, policy discussions in Europe and beyond about cutting back on gas, oil and coal emphasized safety and the environment, at the expense of financial and economic considerations, said Lucia van Geuns, a strategic energy adviser at the Hague Center for Strategic Studies. Now, it's the reverse.
"Gas prices became very high, and all of a sudden security of supply and price became the main subject of public debate," she said.
The renewed emphasis on energy independence and national security may encourage policymakers to backslide on efforts to decrease the use of fossil fuels that pump deadly greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.
Already, skyrocketing prices have spurred additional production and consumption of fuels that contribute to global warming. Coal imports to the European Union in January rose more than 56 percent from the previous year.
In Britain, the Coal Authority gave a mine in Wales permission last month to increase output by 40 million tons over the next two decades. In Australia, there are plans to open or expand more coking coal mines. And China, which has traditionally made energy security a priority, has further stepped up its coal production and approved three new billion-dollar coal mines this week.
How Europeans are responding to high energy bills.
"Get your rig count up," Jennifer Granholm, the U.S. energy secretary, said in December, urging American oil producers to raise their output. Shale companies in Oklahoma, Colorado and other states are looking to resurrect drilling that had ceased because there is suddenly money to be made. And this month, Exxon Mobil announced plans to increase spending on new oil wells and other projects.
Ian Goldin, a professor of globalization and development at the University of Oxford, warned that high energy prices could lead to more exploration of traditional fossil fuels. "Governments will want to deprioritize renewables and sustainables, which would be exactly the wrong response," he said.
Europe's transition to sustainable energy has always been an intricate calculus, requiring it to back away from the dirtiest fossil fuel like coal, while still working with gas and oil producers to power homes, cars and factories until better alternatives are available.
For Germany, dependency on Russian gas has been an integral part of its environmental blueprint for many years. Plans for the first direct pipeline between the two countries, Nord Stream 1, started in 1997. A leader in the push to reduce carbon emissions, Berlin has moved to shutter coal mines and nuclear power plants, after the 2011 disaster at the Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan. The idea was that Russian gas would supply the needed fuel during the yearslong transition to cleaner energy sources. Two-thirds of the gas Germany burned last year came from Russia.
Future plans called for even more gas to be delivered through Nord Stream 2, a new 746-mile pipeline under the Baltic Sea that directly links Russia to northeastern Germany.
On Tuesday, after President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia recognized two breakaway republics in Ukraine and mobilized forces, Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany halted final regulatory review of the $11 billion pipeline, which was completed last year.
"I don't think the threat from Russia is outweighing the threat of climate change, and I don't see coal mines opening up across Europe," said James Nixey, director of the Russia-Eurasia program at Chatham House, a research organization in London.
Certainly, the path of energy transition has never been clear. Five climate summits have taken place over the past 30 years, and progress has always fallen short. This latest setback may just be the latest in a long series of halfway measures and setbacks.
Still, without a more comprehensive strategy to wean itself off gas, Europe won't be able to accomplish its goal of reducing emissions 55 percent by 2030 compared with 1990 levels, or to reach the Glasgow summit's target of cutting net greenhouse gases to zero by 2050.
As Mr. Nixey acknowledged, "this debate is changing" as leaders are forced to acknowledge the downsides of dependency on Russian energy.
Even in Germany, where the progressive Greens have gained a more influential voice in the government, there has been a shift in tone.
This month, Robert Habeck, Germany's new minister for the economy and climate change and a member of the Greens, said events had underscored the need to diversify supplies. "We need to act here and secure ourselves better," he said. "If we don't, we will become a pawn in the game."
Energy prices started to climb before Mr. Putin began massing troops on Ukraine's eastern border, as countries emerged from pandemic closures and demand shot up.
But as Mr. Putin moved aggressively against Ukraine and energy prices soared further, the political and strategic vulnerabilities presented by Russia's control of so much of Europe's supply took center stage.
"Europe is quite dependent on Russian gas and oil, and this is unsustainable," said Sarah E. Mendelson, the head of Carnegie Mellon's Heinz College in Washington. She added that the United States and its European allies had not focused enough on energy independence in recent years.
Overall, Europe gets more than a third of its natural gas and 25 percent of its oil from Russia. Deliveries have slowed significantly in recent months, while reserves in Europe have fallen to just 31 percent of capacity.
Mateusz Garus, a blacksmith at a coal mine in Poland. "We will destroy the power sector," he said, "and we will be dependent on others like Russia."Credit...Maciek Nabrdalik for The New York Times
For critics of the European Union's climate policies, the sudden focus away from greenhouse gas emissions and on existing fuel reserves is validating.
Arkadiusz Siekaniec, vice president of the Trade Union of Miners in Poland, has long argued that the European Union's push to end coal production on the continent was folly. But now he hopes that others may come around to his point of view.
The climate policy "is a suicidal mission" that could leave the entire region overly dependent on Russian fuel, Mr. Siekaniec said last week as American troops landed in his country. "It threatens the economy as well as the citizens of Europe and Poland."
For Mateusz Garus, a blacksmith at Jankowice, a coal mine in Upper Silesia, the heart of coal country, politics and not climate change are driving policy. "We will destroy the power sector," he said, "and we will be dependent on others like Russia."
#26
The phone call to the Eugene Water & Electric Board was startling. A group of homeowners, fearing a storm could knock down nearby power lines and ignite wildfires, was asking the Oregon utility to turn off their electricity.
"I about fell out of my chair," said Rodney Price, the utility's assistant general manager, of the people who were voluntarily asking to live in the dark in September, during one of the worst fire seasons Oregon had ever seen. It was a sign of growing angst, he said. "We're seeing more and more widespread impacts of climate change. It's clear it's impacting how we do our business."
Across the United States, power companies are scrambling to keep up with a barrage of extreme weather from a rapidly warming climate. In the West, that means trying to meet soaring demand for air-conditioning because of record heat, without sparking wildfires made more destructive because of record drought. A desperate tactic pioneered in California, utilities intentionally shutting off power lines to avoid starting fires, has now spread to Oregon and Nevada.
On Wednesday, California's grid operator asked the state's 39 million residents to conserve electricity or face rolling power outages, the sixth time it has done so this summer. The Texas power grid operator has forecast that demand will reach a record high over the next week as a heat dome bakes the state.
Nationwide, electric utilities, grid operators and regulators have struggled to adequately prepare for the hazards of global warming, like storm surges that can knock out substations and heat waves that can cause power plants to falter, with many expecting that the biggest threats will not materialize for decades to come.
"It's fair to say there was this widespread assumption that the impacts of climate change and extreme weather would unfold more gradually, and there would be more time to prepare," said Alison Silverstein, an energy consultant based in Austin, Texas. "But in the past few years, the entire industry has really been smacked upside the head."
With rare exceptions, most electricity providers nationwide still don't conduct detailed climate studies that would help them understand all the ways that increased heat, drought, wildfires or flooding can ravage their power grids, researchers have found.
The consequences are becoming increasingly plain. Last August, California suffered its first widespread blackouts in two decades, leaving 800,000 customers without electricity over two days, after a severe heat wave overwhelmed the grid. This summer, California's grid operator has warned the state faces the risk of further outages as a relentless drought has sharply reduced water levels in reservoirs and reduced output from the state's hydroelectric dams.
Texas was caught badly unprepared for a ferocious February storm that knocked out power for 4.5 million customers and left more than 150 people dead. The state still does not factor climate change into its energy planning, and even after Texas legislators approved upgrades to the grid this spring, scientists keep warning that the system remains vulnerable to failure under severe heat waves and drought.
Several factors explain why power companies have been slow to defend themselves against climate change.
Some utilities say early climate models couldn't precisely show how rising heat, drought or flooding would affect specific locations, making planning difficult. Regulators are often reluctant to approve major grid upgrades that would raise costs for ratepayers when the benefits are hard to quantify. And many utilities and grid operators have relied on historical weather conditions as they plan for the future. But with global warming fueling increasingly extreme weather, the past may not be the best gauge of what's coming.
That's starting to change. Last year, California, for the first time, ordered the state's private utilities to factor global warming into their long-term planning. In June, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission held a technical conference to discuss the risks that climate change poses to electric reliability.
Still, it will take years to revamp thousands of power plants and transmission lines nationwide to cope with the dangers of a hotter planet.
In California, Pacific Gas & Electric is upgrading its transmission network to avoid a repeat of 2018, when a broken power line sparked the Camp Fire, which killed 85 people and forced the utility into bankruptcy. But PG&E has warned that completing the work could take a decade. In July, the utility told regulators that its equipment may have sparked the Dixie Fire, which has already burned 200,000 acres north of Sacramento.
And adaptation won't come cheap. A recent report by ICF International, a consulting firm, estimated that utilities faced a $500 billion shortfall in fortifying their systems against known climate risks.
To pay for wildfire protection, Pacific Gas & Electric has asked California regulators to approve a $5.5 billion rate increase for customers from 2023 to 2026, which could raise the average residential bill by roughly $430 per year. PG&E is considering burying 10,000 miles of power lines underground, which could cost up to $30 billion more.
In the meantime, many residents are figuring out ways to keep the lights on when the utility can't.
Maureen Kennedy spent this spring investigating solar and battery power for her home in Inverness, northwest of San Francisco, because of growing anxiety over PG&E's power shutdowns.
"Your utility is so unreliable that you have to think about spending $18,000 for solar and battery backup," said Ms. Kennedy, a retired real estate broker.
A spokesman for PG&E declined requests to interview utility executives.
Caroline Winn is the chief executive of San Diego Gas & Electric, which pioneered many of the techniques other utilities have adopted for wildfires. Her company has started receiving calls and visits from utility workers from Oregon and places as far away as Australia seeking guidance in fire prevention.
But now Ms. Winn worries about another threat from climate change: sea level rise, which could flood four of the utility's coastal substations over the next several decades. "Climate is not staying the same," Ms. Winn said. "It's getting worse. This is not only a California problem. This is a world problem."
One utility that has embraced climate planning is Con Edison in New York, which got a devastating preview of the risks of a warming planet when Hurricane Sandy struck the Northeast in 2012 and 1.1 million customers lost power. At one point, the hurricane sent 14-foot storm surges into Lower Manhattan, more than a foot higher than the worst-case scenario Con Ed had envisioned, and disabled a crucial substation.
"That storm was a real wake-up call for us," said Timothy Cawley, chief executive of Con Ed, which spent $1 billion building new storm walls and pumps and installing submersible equipment that could withstand flooding.
But Con Ed also went further: The utility partnered with climate scientists at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and consultants at ICF to prepare a comprehensive climate risk assessment, modeling a variety of future scenarios for sea-level rise, heat waves and other hazards.
That helped Con Ed see risks it might have missed. For instance, the utility found that hotter temperatures wouldn't just mean more demand for electricity. Climate models suggest that New York City could soon see heat waves that last longer than ever before, which meant that many of Con Ed's transformers and cables wouldn't be able to cool down overnight, as they were designed to do. The utility estimated that the cooling equipment at its facilities may need to be up to 40 percent larger by 2040.
Experts called Con Ed's climate study the gold standard. But relatively few utilities have undertaken a similar exercise.
"A lot of utilities say they're doing vulnerability planning, but when you dig into the details, they're still basing their analyses on historical weather conditions," said Romany Webb, a senior fellow at the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law who has studied the climate risks utilities face. "Or they are only looking at a few climate impacts, while ignoring others, or focusing on just a few power plants and substations but not considering the risk to their systems as a whole."
Utilities say they take these concerns seriously.
"Our industry is constantly working to adapt to new and evolving threats to the energy grid," said Scott Aaronson, vice president for security and preparedness at the Edison Electric Institute, which represents investor-owned utilities.
Even if they do everything right, power companies can still find themselves assailed by the effects of climate change unfolding faster than anticipated.
Seattle City Light, a public utility that serves 900,000 residents, conducted a detailed climate risk assessment in 2015 after realizing that its hydropower facilities were vulnerable to shifting precipitation patterns driven by climate change. The utility is often cited as a model of forward-thinking in this regard.
But last month, when a record-shattering heat wave that shocked even climate scientists hit the Pacific Northwest, the utility faced fresh challenges. As temperatures soared past 100 degrees, some of its underground equipment suffered outages, affecting roughly 1,700 customers. The utility had to rotate its repair crews more frequently because of the dangerous heat, slowing response times.
"The biggest challenge for us," said Ronda Strauch, the climate change research and adaptation adviser at Seattle City Light, "is the pace of climate change relative to the pace at which we can plan and respond to the situation at hand."
#27
Make more beef-free meals. Compost food scraps. Replace a natural gas stove with an electric one.
These are all fairly simple ways people can help combat climate change in their own kitchens. Still, most Americans don't do it. Why?
Because it means changing lifelong habits. Because they believe it won't make a difference. Because they think their friends and neighbors aren't doing it.
Research shows that it is not easy to motivate people to curb their emissions, but some strategies do work, and experts are trying to identify the best ones.
Magnus Bergquist, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden, said widespread behavior transformation is difficult, as people often have contradictory goals. For example, changing habits or buying energy-efficient products, "can conflict with people's goals of seeking comfort, saving money and gaining social acceptance," he said in a video interview.
Even those with the best intentions can run up against such conflicts. Leah Murphy, 63, of New Paltz, N.Y., said she recycles, has reduced her use of plastic, shops with canvas bags and has installed energy-efficient lightbulbs, among other efforts.
Nonetheless, "over 30 years ago, when my first child was born, I arranged for a diaper service because it was supposed to be better for the environment," Ms. Murphy said in an interview. Yet there were still a lot of diapers to wash, and after six weeks, she switched to disposable diapers.
"I told myself that the energy used to wash cloth diapers was probably just as bad for the environment as disposables," she said. "That experience represents the start of a long series of rationalizations between convenience and conscience -- more often than not, with convenience prevailing."
At the same time, there is concern that promoting personal solutions to address global climate change lets corporations and governments off the hook and even plays into their hands. For example, a carbon footprint calculator was created by the oil and gas company BP in 2004 as part of an advertising campaign to help people measure their impact on the environment. Critics said it was simply a way to shift the responsibility from big companies to everyday consumers.
But it's wrong to look at solutions to the vast issue of climate change as solely good or bad, said Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, which researches the public's knowledge, attitudes, behavior and policy preferences on climate change.
BP did create the calculator "as a way to put the onus on individual consumers, but it's still valuable as a basic concept to say, 'well, if you really do want to reduce your own emissions, shouldn't you probably start with an estimate of how much you're emitting?'" he said in a video interview. "Both can be true."
According to the organization Project Drawdown, which advances climate solutions, individual and household actions taken together - from reducing food waste to installing LED lighting - have the potential to produce about 25 percent to 30 percent of the reductions in greenhouse emissions needed to avoid the extremely dangerous aspects of climate change.
Take eating beef. Cows, and to a lesser extent goats and sheep, are significant contributors to greenhouse gases through the methane they emit from gas and manure. And cows' pastures are typically created by cutting down forests, which releases the carbon dioxide stored in trees.
But according to the World Resource Institute, a research organization, if each person living in high beef-consuming countries - like the United States - ate 1.5 fewer burgers a week, the need for agricultural expansion and deforestation would be eliminated and greenhouse gases significantly reduced.
Still, modifying even such seemingly minor behavior is difficult. Since the 1970s, overall beef consumption in the U.S. has dropped considerably, because of the climate, as well as health and animal welfare concerns. But it needs to decrease substantially more to address climate change. Instead, it slightly increased in 2022 to the highest in more than a decade.
It's not clear why, but it's an example of how hard it is to induce change.
"Some people have the naïve idea that if we just educate people, change will follow," Professor Bergquist said. "But it doesn't take much to understand that we know we should exercise more; we know that we should eat more healthy; but we don't do it. So, knowledge is a necessary but insufficient factor. On top of that, we need motivation."
He coauthored an analysis of data from 430 primary studies of strategies to improve environmental-related behavior, such as recycling or biking or walking instead of driving.
Of six interventions to change people's behaviors, the study found, providing data or information was the least successful, while financial incentives like rebates, coupons and fines can make a difference.
But research has also found that social comparisons - what are my friends and neighbors doing? - had the biggest effect: When customers were told how their utility use compared to their neighbors', the higher users often decreased their consumption by one to two percent. And with solar panels, people are persuaded to install them if they see them on their neighbors' rooftops.
Mr. Leiserowitz said he witnessed that in his own neighborhood. "We were the first to put solar panels on a roof 10 years ago, and now there are dozens that have solar panels on the roof," he said. "It's not because I went out talking to people about it - it's because people can see that somebody else who's much like them has adopted this new technology."
But collective changes, from reducing littering to wearing seatbelts to drinking less alcohol, often evolve gradually. It took many years and numerous initiatives to reduce smoking, for example. That included more education about the dangers, restrictions on smoking in public areas, prohibitive taxes on cigarettes, public stigma and greater access to programs that helped people quit.
"Changes are slow and hard to see - but when you look backward you see that things that seemed outlandish are increasingly commonplace," said Jason Mark, the editor in chief of Sierra Magazine, in a video interview.
A 2019 report by Rare, a 50-year-old global nonprofit that uses behavioral insights to encourage action to protect the environment, examined seven personal choices and their impact on climate change: switching to an electric vehicle, reducing air travel, eating a plant-rich diet, offsetting carbon, reducing food waste, tending carbon-sequestering soil and purchasing green energy.
The report found that if one in 10 people in each category adopted a reduction behavior, total U.S. global greenhouse emissions would decrease by eight percent. That would shrink by 80 percent the projected gap between what the U.S. has promised in the Paris Agreement - the international treaty on climate that took effect in 2016 - and where it is now, the report stated.
Genevieve Guenther, the author of "The Language of Climate Politics," emphasized that not all people are equally responsible for climate change. According to a report by the nongovernmental organization Oxfam International, the top 1 percent in income worldwide account for more carbon emissions than the poorest 66 percent. In the United States, a study by PLOS Climate found, 10 percent of the richest Americans account for about 40 percent of greenhouse gas emissions.
Political actions, such as voting and pressuring elected officials, can help, Ms. Guenther said in a video interview.
"Our true responsibility is to use our choices as political agents in the world to try to shift power, take power away from the people who are blocking the transition away from fossil fuels and give it to people who will lead into a livable future," she said.
#28
Make more beef-free meals. Compost food scraps. Replace a natural gas stove with an electric one.
These are all fairly simple ways people can help combat climate change in their own kitchens. Still, most Americans don't do it. Why?
Because it means changing lifelong habits. Because they believe it won't make a difference. Because they think their friends and neighbors aren't doing it.
Research shows that it is not easy to motivate people to curb their emissions, but some strategies do work, and experts are trying to identify the best ones.
Magnus Bergquist, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden, said widespread behavior transformation is difficult, as people often have contradictory goals. For example, changing habits or buying energy-efficient products, "can conflict with people's goals of seeking comfort, saving money and gaining social acceptance," he said in a video interview.
Even those with the best intentions can run up against such conflicts. Leah Murphy, 63, of New Paltz, N.Y., said she recycles, has reduced her use of plastic, shops with canvas bags and has installed energy-efficient lightbulbs, among other efforts.
Nonetheless, "over 30 years ago, when my first child was born, I arranged for a diaper service because it was supposed to be better for the environment," Ms. Murphy said in an interview. Yet there were still a lot of diapers to wash, and after six weeks, she switched to disposable diapers.
"I told myself that the energy used to wash cloth diapers was probably just as bad for the environment as disposables," she said. "That experience represents the start of a long series of rationalizations between convenience and conscience -- more often than not, with convenience prevailing."
At the same time, there is concern that promoting personal solutions to address global climate change lets corporations and governments off the hook and even plays into their hands. For example, a carbon footprint calculator was created by the oil and gas company BP in 2004 as part of an advertising campaign to help people measure their impact on the environment. Critics said it was simply a way to shift the responsibility from big companies to everyday consumers.
But it's wrong to look at solutions to the vast issue of climate change as solely good or bad, said Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, which researches the public's knowledge, attitudes, behavior and policy preferences on climate change.
BP did create the calculator "as a way to put the onus on individual consumers, but it's still valuable as a basic concept to say, 'well, if you really do want to reduce your own emissions, shouldn't you probably start with an estimate of how much you're emitting?'" he said in a video interview. "Both can be true."
According to the organization Project Drawdown, which advances climate solutions, individual and household actions taken together - from reducing food waste to installing LED lighting - have the potential to produce about 25 percent to 30 percent of the reductions in greenhouse emissions needed to avoid the extremely dangerous aspects of climate change.
Take eating beef. Cows, and to a lesser extent goats and sheep, are significant contributors to greenhouse gases through the methane they emit from gas and manure. And cows' pastures are typically created by cutting down forests, which releases the carbon dioxide stored in trees.
But according to the World Resource Institute, a research organization, if each person living in high beef-consuming countries - like the United States - ate 1.5 fewer burgers a week, the need for agricultural expansion and deforestation would be eliminated and greenhouse gases significantly reduced.
Still, modifying even such seemingly minor behavior is difficult. Since the 1970s, overall beef consumption in the U.S. has dropped considerably, because of the climate, as well as health and animal welfare concerns. But it needs to decrease substantially more to address climate change. Instead, it slightly increased in 2022 to the highest in more than a decade.
It's not clear why, but it's an example of how hard it is to induce change.
"Some people have the naïve idea that if we just educate people, change will follow," Professor Bergquist said. "But it doesn't take much to understand that we know we should exercise more; we know that we should eat more healthy; but we don't do it. So, knowledge is a necessary but insufficient factor. On top of that, we need motivation."
He coauthored an analysis of data from 430 primary studies of strategies to improve environmental-related behavior, such as recycling or biking or walking instead of driving.
Of six interventions to change people's behaviors, the study found, providing data or information was the least successful, while financial incentives like rebates, coupons and fines can make a difference.
But research has also found that social comparisons - what are my friends and neighbors doing? - had the biggest effect: When customers were told how their utility use compared to their neighbors', the higher users often decreased their consumption by one to two percent. And with solar panels, people are persuaded to install them if they see them on their neighbors' rooftops.
Mr. Leiserowitz said he witnessed that in his own neighborhood. "We were the first to put solar panels on a roof 10 years ago, and now there are dozens that have solar panels on the roof," he said. "It's not because I went out talking to people about it - it's because people can see that somebody else who's much like them has adopted this new technology."
But collective changes, from reducing littering to wearing seatbelts to drinking less alcohol, often evolve gradually. It took many years and numerous initiatives to reduce smoking, for example. That included more education about the dangers, restrictions on smoking in public areas, prohibitive taxes on cigarettes, public stigma and greater access to programs that helped people quit.
"Changes are slow and hard to see - but when you look backward you see that things that seemed outlandish are increasingly commonplace," said Jason Mark, the editor in chief of Sierra Magazine, in a video interview.
A 2019 report by Rare, a 50-year-old global nonprofit that uses behavioral insights to encourage action to protect the environment, examined seven personal choices and their impact on climate change: switching to an electric vehicle, reducing air travel, eating a plant-rich diet, offsetting carbon, reducing food waste, tending carbon-sequestering soil and purchasing green energy.
The report found that if one in 10 people in each category adopted a reduction behavior, total U.S. global greenhouse emissions would decrease by eight percent. That would shrink by 80 percent the projected gap between what the U.S. has promised in the Paris Agreement - the international treaty on climate that took effect in 2016 - and where it is now, the report stated.
Genevieve Guenther, the author of "The Language of Climate Politics," emphasized that not all people are equally responsible for climate change. According to a report by the nongovernmental organization Oxfam International, the top 1 percent in income worldwide account for more carbon emissions than the poorest 66 percent. In the United States, a study by PLOS Climate found, 10 percent of the richest Americans account for about 40 percent of greenhouse gas emissions.
Political actions, such as voting and pressuring elected officials, can help, Ms. Guenther said in a video interview.
"Our true responsibility is to use our choices as political agents in the world to try to shift power, take power away from the people who are blocking the transition away from fossil fuels and give it to people who will lead into a livable future," she said.
#29
LANDSHUT, Germany - When Angela Merkel pulled the plug on nuclear power after the Fukushima meltdown, she put Germany back on course to become the only leading industrial nation to abandon atomic energy in the world. The economic engine of Europe planned instead to fuel itself through a transition to renewable energies with cheap Russian gas.
Now, 11 years later, with Russia toying with Germany's gas supply, her successor, Chancellor Olaf Scholz, who has modeled himself in Ms. Merkel's image, is staring at the possibility of reversing that momentous decision.
Europe's geopolitical calculations have been turned upside down by the war in Ukraine. It has created an energy crisis that comes at a critical moment for Germany and Europe's ambitions to become global leaders in the transition to climate neutrality. Instead, as Russia tightens the taps, coal plants are being refired across Europe, and nuclear energy is getting a second look as many on the continent wrangle over whether to sacrifice their sacred cows.
The European Parliament recently took the much-contested step of classifying some gas and nuclear power as "green." In the Netherlands, gas fracking is up for reconsideration. In Belgium, like Germany, the debate has turned to keeping nuclear plants running, something unthinkable just months ago.
This week, Mr. Scholz for the first time publicly acknowledged that Germany's plan to shut down its last three nuclear plants by the end of the year - the culmination of Ms. Merkel's nuclear-free promise - may no longer be viable given the war in Ukraine.
Running the last three nuclear plants in Germany past their decommissioning date of Dec. 31, 2022, he said, "can make sense" given the energy crisis the war has precipitated. Any such move, he insisted, would not be decided by his government but rather by a series of stress tests on the German power system to see whether the plants would be needed and if they would be able to run safely past their shutdown date.
In part, Mr. Scholz is responding to a growing sense among Germans - according to recent polls, now over 80 percent - that they must re-evaluate the subject that led to some of the most emotional and divisive debates their country has grappled with since reunification.
"We are having conversations we thought we would never have to have again," said Rosi Steinberger, a member of the regional parliament in the southern state of Bavaria, which will most likely find itself in most need of nuclear power should energy shortages come to pass.
"This is painful for all of us," she said, as she worked in her darkened office to save electricity. "But we are also under the shadow of this war in Ukraine."
That admission is probably harder for politicians like Ms. Steinberger than those from any other German party: She is from the Greens who now share power with Mr. Scholz's Social Democrats in Berlin. The Greens have their roots not only in Germany's environmental movement, but also in its grass-roots antinuclear protests, where the police clashed with activists, who sometimes chained themselves to the gates of nuclear plants.
Annalena Baerbock, the Green foreign minister, grew up going to such demonstrations, where human chains were formed in protest of nuclear plants. Even as many in her party begin to accept what looks inevitable, Ms. Baerbock insisted on Wednesday that she still believed an extension of nuclear power was "not an option."
It is an irony of politics that it was Ms. Merkel who became the poster child for Germany's "nuclear exit." Her Christian Democrats were long proponents of nuclear power, and her government fought to extend the life of nuclear power after a previous left-leaning government sought to shut it down. She defended that move by arguing atomic energy was the "bridging technology" paving the way toward a renewable energy system in Germany - the same language her party later used to defend the shift to gas.
But the Fukushima nuclear plant disaster in 2011 forced her into a U-turn, after her party faced a catastrophic loss in regional elections to the Greens, who campaigned against nuclear power. Germans, long split over nuclear issues, had shifted against atomic energy, and Ms. Merkel soon took seven of Germany's 17 nuclear power plants offline.
She argued she took the move because the Fukushima disaster, in a high-tech country like Japan, was a "turning point for the entire world."
"It's as if the pope were suddenly advocating the use of birth control pills," the German magazine Der Spiegel wrote at the time.
For years, despite bemusement of many outside Germany, the country seemed set on that course. This year, as Europe began its sanctions on Russian fossil fuels, Germany's Green energy minister seemed more willing to turn on carbon intensive coal plants rather than reopening the issue of nuclear power.
Mr. Scholz took a similar line - only weeks ago, he was still telling reporters that any reversal on the nuclear power exit was not possible.
Now, the chancellor is facing a decision to keep plants on that many argue is as political as Ms. Merkel's move to switch them off.
There are only three plants still operating in Germany, accounting for around 6 percent of Germany's electricity supply. For Germans, nuclear power became wrapped up with Cold War fears that their nation, on the front line of Europe's Iron Curtain and divided between the U.S.- and Soviet-backed governments, could become the ground zero of nuclear annihilation.
Germans of that era grew up reading "The Last Children of Schewenborn," a novel about the aftermath of a nuclear war. Today's generation watches Germany's Netflix thriller "Dark," which takes place in a town that lives in the ominous shadow of a nuclear plant.
Ironically, in real-world Germany, those living beneath the white columns of steam of the Isar 2 nuclear plant are far more blasé about the plants staying on than many of their fellow countrymen.
"I've been here for 30 years," said Hans Königsbauer, a 67-year-old retired butcher, slowly tending to his flower beds that face the nearby plant. "Since they built it. I'm not afraid at all."
He is unfazed by the fact that the plant has not had a comprehensive inspection since 2009 - something commonly cited by opponents as a safety risk. "They do safety inspections every two months," Mr. Königsbauer said. "It is safe."
Kathy Mühlebach-Sturm, a representative of the BUND environmental group in the same district, said she understood why many people were puzzled by some Germans' anxieties about nuclear power. "But I look at it the other way around," she said. "I understand the fear. What I can't understand is the lack of it."
Like most Bavarians, recollections of the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear meltdown in Ukraine are seared in her mind. The disaster created a cloud of radioactive fallout that rained down on parts of Germany - and now, fighting around nuclear plants in Ukraine gives such memories a new potency.
She recalled how she and other parents frantically changed the sand in children's sandboxes, and drove hundreds of kilometers to buy milk from dairy farmers whose cows fed on hay harvested before the contaminated rains.
Even today, 36 years later, officials in Bavaria say some 15 percent or more of wild boars inspected after slaughter are contaminated with radioactivity.
Opponents to nuclear power's extension in Germany argue that on top of the emotional resonance, the plants will have only a minimal impact on Germany's energy crisis.
Nuclear power goes mostly to electricity, while gas imports are used for heating German homes and for heating processes critical to German industry.
"That is only 1 percent of the shortfall that we need to compensate for because of the lack of Russian imports," said Simon Müller, a director of Agora Energiewende, a think tank promoting the transition to renewable energy.
Yet Mr. Müller said keeping the plants on may still make sense - not for Germany, but for Europe. Because European states often share electricity, nuclear power plant outages in France may in fact become a valid reason, he said, for keeping nuclear power on in Germany, even though it would only be a drop in the bucket of what France might need.
In contrast to Germany, France gets about 70 percent of its electricity from its aging nuclear fleet of reactors, more than any other country. The government is now renationalizing its electricity giant and will spend 51.7 billion euros to build up to 14 next-generation reactors by 2035.
"The big untold headline is that we have a second crisis in Europe," he said. "This is a crisis in the electricity system, and it's a crisis caused by failing nuclear plants in France."
Alexander Putz, the mayor of Landshut, remembers going to antinuclear protests as a teenager, wearing the famous sticker of a smiling sun that said: "Nuclear power? No thanks."
Today, the former engineer said his understanding of modern nuclear plant safety left him with no anxieties about living just a short drive away from the Isar 2 plant, which sits on the banks of the Isar river.
He feels a sense of absurdity in the debate, given that Europe's electricity sharing could most likely mean buying nuclear-produced power from neighboring countries like France or the Czech Republic, where a disaster could hurt Germans as much as an accident in their own country.
"I completely understand people, and I'd rather we didn't have to do it," he said of extending the life of Germany's own reactors. "It's just that we are in a crisis."
#30
As Russia tightens its chokehold on supplies of natural gas, Europe is looking everywhere for energy to keep its economy running. Coal-fired power plants are being revived. Billions are being spent on terminals to bring in liquefied natural gas, much of it from shale fields in Texas. Officials and heads of state are flying to Qatar, Azerbaijan, Norway and Algeria to nail down energy deals.
Across Europe, fears are growing that a cutoff of Russian gas will force governments to ration fuel and businesses to close factories, moves that could put thousands of jobs at risk.
So far, the hunt for fuel has been met with considerable success. But as prices continue to soar and the Russian threat shows no sign of abating, the margin for error is thin.
"There is a very big and legitimate worry about this winter," said Michael Stoppard, vice president for global gas strategy at S&P Global, a research firm.
Five months after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Europe is in the grip of an accelerated and increasingly irreversible transition in how it gets its energy to heat and cool homes, drive businesses and generate power. A long-term switch to more renewable sources of energy has been overtaken by a short-term scramble to make it through the coming winter.
The amount of natural gas coming from Russia, once Europe's largest source of the fuel, is less than a third of what it was a year ago. This week, Gazprom, the Russian energy giant, throttled back already sharply reduced flows in a key pipeline from Russia to Germany, sending European gas futures prices to record levels.
Within a day of Gazprom's announcement, the European Union called for a 15 percent cut of gas use throughout the bloc.
This move away from Russian natural gas - almost unthinkable after a decades-long embrace of Siberian gas delivered via pipelines stretching thousands of miles - is sending shock waves through factory floors and forcing governments to seek alternative sources of energy.
The multipronged effort to uncover alternatives to Russian gas has largely made up for the shortfall. Despite Gazprom's cutbacks, supplies of natural gas in Europe in the first half of 2022 have been roughly equal to those of the same period last year, according to Jack Sharples, a fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies.
The standout performer in this comeback has been liquefied natural gas, chilled to a condensed liquid form and transported on ships. L.N.G. has essentially switched places with piped gas from Russia as Europe's main source of the fuel. About half of the supply has come from the United States, which this year became the world's largest exporter of the fuel.
Looking toward the end of the year, European countries are pushing energy companies to fill salt caverns and other storage facilities with gas to provide a margin of safety in case Russia shuts down the pipelines.
Europe's gas storage has now built up to about 67 percent of overall capacity, more than 10 percentage points higher than a year ago. Those levels create some comfort that European countries might reach something close to the European Union's target of 80 percent full before winter.
But concerns are still mounting, and there are many reasons the European effort could fall short as colder weather approaches.
Russia is well aware of the European Union's campaign to store enough gas to fend off a cutoff this winter and wants to impede it, analysts say, by causing pipeline flows to dwindle. And all sorts of weather issues - an exceptionally cold winter, a storm in the North Sea that knocks out Norway's gas production or a busy Atlantic hurricane season that delays L.N.G. tankers - could tip Europe into energy shortages.
"We are getting close to the danger zone," said Massimo Di Odoardo, vice president for gas at Wood Mackenzie, a research institution.
Reflecting these worries, European gas futures prices have doubled in the last two months to about 200 euros a megawatt-hour on the Dutch TTF exchange, around 10 times the levels of a year ago.
The astronomical cost of energy in Europe is putting a wide variety of industries on the defensive, forcing changes that may help make the European Union's voluntary 15 percent gas savings target attainable. The International Energy Agency recently forecast that gas demand in the region would fall 9 percent this year.
For instance, a steel mill owned by ArcelorMittal on Hamburg's busy harbor in Germany has for years used natural gas to extract the iron that then goes into its electric furnace. But recently, it shifted to buying metal inputs for its mill from a sister plant in Canada with access to cheaper energy. Natural gas prices in North America, while elevated by historical standards, are about a seventh of European prices.
"Natural gas costs so much that we cannot afford" to operate in the usual way, said Uwe Braun, chief executive of ArcelorMittal Hamburg.
Few analysts or executives expect the situation to ease in the coming months. Instead, the winter may well prove to be a nail-biter with energy-intensive industries like metal smelters and makers of fertilizer and glass under pressure.
News of plant closures or production cutbacks is already trickling in. In Romania, ALRO Group said recently that it was closing production at a large aluminum plant and laying off 500 people because high energy costs made it uncompetitive.
In some countries, including Britain and Germany, energy companies have not yet fully passed these costs to their customers, meaning the hardest blows are yet to come.
"The biggest risk at the moment is an explosion of household and industrial energy prices this winter, which the public and industry can barely deal with," said Henning Gloystein, a director at Eurasia Group, a political risk firm.
Shipments of liquefied natural gas, the chief alternative to piped-in gas from Russia for much of the continent, remains a costly alternative. And Europe's growing appetite for L.N.G. may be hurting other regions of the globe that rely on the fuel.
Europe has essentially been bidding liquefied gas away from other markets, chiefly in Asia, where China, Japan and South Korea are major customers. Europe is "taking L.N.G. away from markets that are not prepared to pay the prices that Europe may be prepared to pay," Ben van Beurden, chief executive of Shell, a provider of L.N.G., told reporters on Thursday. "That is a very uncomfortable position to be in."
Countries like Germany and Romania are also taking other steps, including bringing back coal-fired electric power plants or delaying their retirement. The idea is to minimize the amount of gas used at power plants to generate electricity and save it for essentials like home heating or running factories. On Thursday, the International Energy Agency forecast that global coal demand this year would reach almost nine billion tons, matching its peak of 2013.
Many uncertainties remain. Although Europe has about two dozen terminals to receive liquefied natural gas, none are in Germany. Berlin is scrambling to build as many as four of these installations and has set aside €2.5 billion ($2.55 billion) to rent four L.N.G. processing vessels, but it is not clear if any of them will be online quickly enough provide much help this winter.
Weather may also be crucial, and not only in Europe. A frigid winter in Asia, long the primary market for liquefied gas, would heighten the competition with Europe for what analysts say is a limited global supply of L.N.G.
It is also hard to see where else large increases of gas would come from. "If we lose Russian supply entirely, there is not very much headroom to increase supply from elsewhere," Mr. Sharples of the Oxford Institute said.
There are other wild cards. Until the gas crunch hit, the Dutch government set in place a plan to wind down the enormous Groningen field in the northern Netherlands - one of the few major sources of natural gas in mainland Europe - because of local anger over earthquakes caused by gas extraction.
Some observers question the government's continued reluctance to awaken what Mr. Stoppard of S&P Global called a "sleeping giant" that could put very substantial amounts of gas - perhaps 40 percent of Germany's annual consumption - back into the grid.
The Dutch government has decided to hold off on permanently closing the gas wells because of "the uncertain geopolitical developments," but it insists it will consider using Groningen only "in the worst-case scenario, if people's safety is at risk."
#31
Top energy officials have fallen and key energy policy decisions have been delayed because of political calculations, lawmakers and experts say, costing Ukraine valuable time in preparing for winter.For more than two years, as Russia relentlessly bombed Ukraine's power stations, the head of the national electricity company, Volodymyr Kudrytskyi, earned praise from Kyiv's allies and energy experts for keeping the country's power grid mostly running.
But last month, Mr. Kudrytskyi was dismissed by the supervisory board of the company, Ukrenergo. Ukrainian lawmakers criticized the move as unjustified given Mr. Kudrytskyi's record, while countries financing repairs to power plants said it was ill timed as Ukraine scrambles to restore its ravaged energy network before winter.
Adding to their concern, two members of Ukrenergo's supervisory board resigned in protest, saying the dismissal was "politically motivated." Several lawmakers from across the political spectrum said German Galushchenko, Ukraine's energy minister, was behind the move to gain greater control over the company's management.
Political rivalries have disrupted other Ukrainian institutions this year, undermining the smooth functioning of Parliament and causing upheaval in the country's military command. Now, political infighting, highlighted by Mr. Kudrytskyi's dismissal, is hampering Ukraine's efforts to avert an energy crisis, according to more than half a dozen current and former Ukrainian energy officials, experts and lawmakers.
They said several top officials involved in repairing the grid or protecting it from Russian attacks had been fired or pushed to resign without apparent reason, and that major policy decisions had been delayed because of political calculations. With substantial funding allocated to strengthening the energy network, they also voiced concerns that some projects might be vulnerable to corruption, a pervasive issue in Ukraine.
"It's terrifying," said Inna Sovsun, an opposition lawmaker who sits on Parliament's energy committee. "Because in the meantime the energy situation is getting more and more unstable."
An International Energy Agency report said Ukraine's electricity deficit this winter could reach as much as six gigawatts, about one-third of what is needed during peak hours.
In an interview, Mr. Kudrytskyi said a major point of contention with the energy ministry had revolved around the strategy for securing energy supplies. He said he had advocated building dozens of small, privately run power plants across the country to make the system less vulnerable to any single Russian attack - an approach supported by most energy experts and international partners.
But Mr. Kudrytskyi said his suggestions clashed with the position taken by Mr. Galushchenko, the energy minister, who favored greater centralization under state-owned companies. By the time Ukraine's government adopted a plan to decentralize its network, in mid-July, experts and diplomats said that it was too late to bolster energy supplies significantly before winter.
In written responses, Mr. Galushchenko denied pushing for Mr. Kudrytskyi's dismissal, saying he had no influence over Ukrenergo's supervisory board. He also dismissed claims that infighting had derailed Ukraine's energy policies, saying that planned repairs at power stations had been "completed on time" and that Ukraine's energy network was entering winter "with the highest possible level of readiness."
Nevertheless, the United States and European Union ambassadors to Ukraine told Mr. Galushchenko during a lunch last month in Kyiv that he had been too slow in developing decentralized generation capacities, according to two participants who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to disclose the details publicly.
As word of Mr. Kudrytskyi's impending firing spread last month, the E.U. ambassador, Katarina Mathernova, also wrote to the Ukrainian prime minister, Denys Shmyhal, warning that such a move "could jeopardize our collective ability to support Ukrenergo and other priority measures of Ukraine's vital energy security."
The dispute has cost Ukraine precious time in preparing for winter, according to Mr. Kudrytskyi. The solution, he said, was "to put aside any political preferences or any wish to create ambitious plans or whatever and follow one simple rule: Listen to the engineers."
Mr. Kudrytskyi was one of several energy officials to fall over political disputes recently, according to several lawmakers, energy experts and Western diplomats in Kyiv.
In May, Oleksandr Kubrakov was fired as infrastructure minister for reasons never made clear, they said. The next month, Mustafa Nayyem, the head of the reconstruction agency, resigned, citing bureaucratic delays for project approvals and payments to contractors.
The two men had overseen multimillion-dollar plans to build shelters around Ukrainian substations to protect them from Russian attacks, including from shrapnel, drones and missiles.
But in an interview in June after his resignation, Mr. Nayyem said the government had failed to release a significant portion of the funds earmarked for the agency to pay contractors, causing the construction of shelters at several substations to be delayed or halted.
Maksym Shkil, the founder of Autostrada, a Ukrainian company involved in building the shelters, said his company had stopped work over complaints that the government owed him more than $200 million for unpaid work.
The government recently said that 85 percent of the shrapnel and drone shelters had been completed, but even that partial coverage is months past the original deadline of March set in a document from the reconstruction agency obtained by The New York Times.
Mr. Nayyem said a letter he had sent this year to Prime Minister Shmyhal to try to resolve the funding issues had gone unanswered. "The reason is political issues, personal relationships," he said.
In Kyiv's political circles, Mr. Kubrakov and Mr. Nayyem were seen as aligned with the United States on spending priorities for rebuilding aid, a stance that irritated some government officials who resented what they saw as intrusive American oversight. Both had also spoken out against corruption, even reporting lawmakers to watchdogs on suspicion of attempted bribery - upsetting some officials, according to anticorruption activists.
Mr. Shmyhal's office did not respond to a request for comment.
Ukraine has focused on protecting substations because Russia targeted them during the first winter of the war. But energy experts say the approach left the country open to being blindsided by a shift in Russian tactics.
This spring, Russia began attacking power plants directly, and the impact was devastating: Ukraine lost nine gigawatts of generating capacity between March and July, according to the United Nations - far more than can be restored before the winter.
Oleksiy Mikhailenko, a former energy adviser at the British Embassy in Kyiv, said it was clear from the start of the war that Russia could strike power plants. "But the government seems to have not employed any proactive policies to secure the energy supply," he said.
Mr. Kudrytskyi said that as soon as early 2023 he had advocated decentralizing the electricity supply, supporting the entry of private companies into the energy market to build and operate small power plants across the country.
But he said Mr. Galushchenko and other government officials had instead pushed for large-scale, centralized projects. In particular, Mr. Galushchenko pushed multibillion-dollar plans to build four new nuclear reactors through Energoatom, Ukraine's state nuclear energy company, where he once worked.
The move has faced fierce opposition from lawmakers who say the reactors are costly and will take years to build. They also raised concerns about potential corruption, noting that Energoatom has been mired in scandals recently, with some of its top managers currently under investigation on charges of embezzling funds.
Mr. Galushchenko said he had started plans to decentralize generation capacities "in the shortest possible time." He dismissed the opposition to building reactors as the work of lawmakers lobbying for private energy companies.
Energy experts say that while the energy grid's decentralization was important, it would not fully compensate for the damage Russia has done to power plants, which can be protected only by air-defense systems - a capability that Ukraine sorely lacks today.
Still, Mr. Kudrytskyi said if Ukraine had begun decentralizing its energy network last year, it would not be scrambling today to secure energy supplies before winter. "This wrong planning and this approach to recovery cost us more than a year," he said. 
#32
A factory making iconic French bistro glasses is idling its furnaces to offset soaring energy costs. Cities around France are turning off streetlamps and other outdoor lighting to curb electricity use. In Normandy, some schools will start heating classrooms by burning wood to conserve natural gas.
As Russia tightens its chokehold on Europe's energy supplies, France is embarking on its biggest energy conservation effort since the 1970s oil crisis. President Emmanuel Macron's government is calling on the French to prepare for a new era of energy "sobriety" to face down the threat of a hard winter, while reassuring households and businesses about the government's ability to protect them.
"We have been confronted with a series of crises, one more grave than the other," Mr. Macron said in a televised speech to the nation late last month. "The picture that I'm painting is one of the end of abundance," he added. "We have reached a tipping point."
The national effort calls for businesses and individuals to embrace energy conservation by increasing car-pooling, lowering thermostats and shutting off illuminated advertising signs at night - to name a few - or face the risk of rolling blackouts or energy rationing.
On Friday, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, the energy transition minister, sought to reassure wary citizens, saying the government would try to "avoid restrictive measures" over energy use in the peak winter cold season.
The government has been spending lavishly - over 26 billion euros ($26 billion) since Russia's invasion of Ukraine - to keep gas and electric bills affordable, and last week it announced that its cap on household energy bills would be extended until the end of the year. The moves to control energy costs, including the re-nationalization of the energy provider EDF, have helped give France one of the lowest inflation rates in Europe, at 6.5 percent. (The overall eurozone rate for August was 9.1 percent.)
But with food and fuel costs still straining French families, Prime Minister Élisabeth Borne has called on businesses to make the bulk of the nation's energy savings - fast. Companies will be required to cut their energy use by 10 percent or face enforced rationing of electricity and gas.
Businesses will have to appoint an "ambassador of energy sobriety" this month, and present blueprints to the government for cutting their electricity consumption.
France is hardly alone in scrambling to confront a severe energy crunch brought on by Russia's grinding invasion of Ukraine.
The apparent willingness of Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, to use energy as a weapon - last week Russia's state-owned gas company, Gazprom, halted gas supplies to France - has sent oil and gas prices to record highs.
Countries including France have increased reserves as Gazprom turns off the taps: This weekend, France's gas storage facilities were 92 percent full. Even so, energy bills for households and businesses have soared, prompting European governments to resort to a range of offsets that few would have thought possible before the war.
Germany, Europe's biggest user of Russian gas, reversed plans on Monday to shut down two of its three remaining nuclear power plants by the end of the year, and on Sunday announced a $65 billion aid package to ease the burden of high energy costs on citizens. Italy is looking to Algeria as a potential new supplier of natural gas to replace Russian fuel. In Spain, the government has begun a huge effort to improve energy efficiency in buildings and in industry.
France would seem to be less vulnerable than its neighbors: It boasts the biggest nuclear energy arsenal of any European Union country, and is one of the least reliant on Russian natural gas. But France faces an energy crisis of its own, as its nuclear industry addresses cracks, corrosion and other troubles that have forced EDF to temporarily shut down 32 of France's 56 nuclear reactors.
The outages at EDF, which is also Europe's biggest electricity exporter, have sent France's nuclear power output plunging to its lowest level in nearly three decades. In addition, France's worst drought in 30 years this summer has lowered river levels, cutting supplies of hydroelectric power.
Instead of pumping vast amounts of electricity to Britain, Italy and other European countries pivoting from Russian fuel, France now faces the unsettling prospect of initiating rolling blackouts in winter and having to import power or resort to coal-fired plants to meet its energy needs - scenarios the government is desperate to avoid.
The crunch is already starting to force temporary shutdowns at energy-intensive companies, including steel, chemical and glass makers. On Friday, wholesale electricity prices for 2023 in France set a record, surging past €1,000 per megawatt-hour. Many French companies and retailers buy their electricity with three-year contracts that are set to expire, meaning they will have to be renewed at peak prices.
Duralex International, the maker of classic bistro wine and water glasses, announced last week that it would put its furnaces on standby for at least four months starting in November and place its 250 employees on furlough to save energy and cash.
The company said it had been facing "for several months very unfavorable financial production conditions, solely linked to the price of energy," which exploded after the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
"Producing at the daily price energy rate would generate unsustainable losses," José-Luis Llacuna, president of Duralex, said in the statement, adding that he didn't expect the factory to restart until the second quarter of 2023.
At Cristal d'Arques, the French maker of elegant crystal wine goblets, 1,650 of the company's 5,000 employees will be put on partial furlough through year-end. Guillaume Rabel-Suquet, the communications director, told French television that the company's gas bill quadrupled from the end of last year, to €75 million, and could reach €260 million in 2023 if prices don't drop, making operations "economically unviable."
The government has tried to offset some, but not all, of the pain for companies, although it recently announced a special €3 billion fund to help businesses that can't pay their energy bills.
President Macron, who faced a stiff presidential election campaign in April that saw the far-right challenger, Marine Le Pen, gain ground by addressing French families' worries over purchasing power, has focused on shielding households from rising energy costs.
A 4 percent cap on increases to household electricity prices that began last winter will be extended until the end of the year, and will continue into 2023 for vulnerable families, France's finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, said last week. The price ceiling is a stark contrast to an 80 percent increase in energy bills that households in Britain are expected to face next month.
Without the cap, French inflation would be about three percentage points higher, the French statistics agency Insee said in a report issued Friday.
Nonetheless, French citizens will have to pull their weight, Ms. Borne cautioned. In recent days, the government issued announcements calling on the French to curb a range of activities, in hopes of collectively saving energy. Among them: refraining from running washers at night, keeping thermostats at 66 degrees Fahrenheit and increasing use of public transportation.
Towns and cities across the land were urged to double down on energy savings in almost any way they saw fit. Many municipalities outside Paris started closing swimming pools intermittently this summer to save money. Other cities are restricting public lighting, which can account for over 40 percent of electricity bills.
The town of Thouars in western France has been turning off streetlights from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. since June and plans to replace bulbs with LED lighting. Strasbourg, a mid-size city on the German border, will close museums two days a week instead of one.
In northern France, some high schools in Brittany will lower their thermostats, while the neighboring region of Normandy will experiment with using wood-burning furnaces for heat in some schools as an alternative to gas.
And businesses have until October to submit their plans for cutting electrical consumption by 10 percent.
"We need a radical change," Ms. Borne said. "Everyone must ask themselves what they can do to consume less."
#33
Chris Wright, the fracking magnate and likely next U.S. energy secretary, makes a moral case for fossil fuels.
His position, laid out in speeches and podcasts, is that the world's poorest people need oil, gas and coal to realize the benefits of modern life that Americans and others in rich nations take for granted. Only fossil fuels, he says, can bring prosperity to millions who still burn wood, dung or charcoal for basic needs like cooking food and heating homes.
"It's just, I think, naïve or evil, or some combination of the two, to believe they should never have washing machines, they should never have access to electricity, they should never have modern medicine," Mr. Wright said on the "Mission Zero" podcast last year. "We don't want that to happen. And we simply don't have meaningful substitutes for oil, gas and coal today."
The argument offered by Mr. Wright, who has been chosen by President-elect Donald J. Trump to run the Energy Department, ignores the fact that wind, solar and other renewable energy are cleaner and increasingly cheaper than fossil fuels. The International Energy Agency says clean energy is coming online globally at an "unprecedented rate" and will play a significant role in the future. In some places, renewable energy has been able to displace fossil fuels.
Mr. Wright also skates past the climate impacts from burning more fossil fuels. Climate change is already having a disproportionate impact on poor nations, which are less able than rich countries to handle the rising seas, extreme weather, drought and other consequences of global warming.
"It's pretty self-serving by the fossil fuel industry to assume the future is going to look exactly like the past," said Joseph Curtin, a managing director on the power and climate team at the Rockefeller Foundation, which is working on expanding clean energy access in poor countries.
"That's not based on any analytical rigor," Mr. Curtin said. "It's perhaps based in the need to sell fossil fuels and shroud it in a moral framework."
Jody Freeman, the director of the Harvard Law School Environmental and Energy Law, called Mr. Wright's position "misleading, warped and selective."
"It is not an intellectually serious argument," she said. "It's about creating a permission structure for not pursuing a more responsible energy policy."
But by sheathing fossil fuels in humanitarian language as a solution to global poverty, Mr. Wright has emerged as one of the right's most savvy salesmen for oil and gas.
"His is the newest and freshest point of view I've seen," Jeff Peeples, the host of "Mission Zero." He said the oil and gas industry has been on the defensive when it comes to climate change.
"If a lot more executives in the oil and gas industry would make this argument, and make this intellectual case for the use of fossil fuels, I think the energy industry as a whole would have a lot better PR success," Mr. Peeples said.
A self-described "nerd turned entrepreneur" and outdoor enthusiast who is often photographed in a fleece vest, Mr. Wright runs a fracking services company and frequently talks about his travels through Africa as informing his desire to tackle poverty.
"People that are burning wooden dung in their huts and want to have a propane stove, they want to get off their feet, ride on a bus or a motor scooter," Mr. Wright said on the podcast "PetroNerds" last year.
The Trump transition team did not make Mr. Wright available for a telephone interview.
Mr. Wright's views on developing nations are important; as energy secretary, he would not only oversee oil and gas exports from the United States but also partnerships with poor countries to create renewable energy.
The share of people gaining access to electricity has steadily grown globally, and fossil fuels are largely responsible. About 800 million people now lack access to electricity, down from more than 1.5 billion in 1998.
But Ian Muir, head of insights at Catalyst Energy Advisors, a consulting firm, pointed out that renewables were now cheaper than fossil fuels in most countries where people lack electricity. Moreover, a solar array can start producing electricity in months, while it can take more than two years to build a gas-powered plant, he said.
The World Bank has found that solar mini grids could provide basic electricity to 380 million people in Africa by 2030 who do not currently have access to power. A Rockefeller Foundation study in 2021 found that investing in distributed renewable energy like rooftop solar panels, small-scale wind turbines and home battery storage systems could create 25 million jobs by the end of the decade in Asia and Africa. That is about 30 times the number of jobs that would be created by investments in oil, gas or coal in that period, the study found.
Daniel M. Kammen, a professor of energy at the University of California, Berkeley, who has worked on energy access throughout Africa and Asia, said coal was responsible for hundreds of thousands of premature deaths around the world annually.
Moreover, he said, big fossil fuel plants in developing nations often tend to favor industries like mining rather than people who need electricity in their homes, so that their children can study at night or they can charge a cellphone.
Technologies like mini grids and rooftop solar can often move faster to provide the electricity access Mr. Wright talks about, he said.
While the coal industry for years presented its product as an antidote to poverty, Mr. Wright has become the new master of an old playbook.
His rhetoric echoes Bjorn Lomborg, the Danish author who gained prominence in 2001 with the English publication of his book "The Skeptical Environmentalist," in which he accepted the reality of climate change but said governments should focus on reducing poverty rather than greenhouse gases. Mr. Lomborg was accused of cherry-picking data and misrepresenting science, but Mr. Wright called the book "fantastic" and has referred to Mr. Lomborg a friend.
In 2014, Alex Epstein, who argues against climate science and is a favorite of Fox News, published "The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels," which described coal, oil and gas as humanity's best chance to thrive. (Mr. Wright has appeared on Mr. Epstein's podcast, "Power Hour.") That same year, Peabody Energy, then one of the world's leading coal companies, began an ad campaign that extolled the virtues of coal for the world's poor.
"Its déjà vu all over again," said Robert J. Brulle, a sociologist at Brown University who studies fossil fuel misinformation campaigns. "They're drawing on old tropes that have been around for 20, 30 years."
Over the years, Mr. Wright built a reputation with gimmicks like drinking a shot of fracked water in a toast to environmental critics. In 2021, he commissioned billboards around Denver to heckle the outdoor clothing maker North Face after the company - whose products, like many other goods, contain petroleum - declined to brand a jacket with an oil company.
"That North Face puffer looks great on you. And it was made from fossil fuels," read the signs.
Those who have worked with Mr. Wright described him as someone who sincerely wants to improve living standards.
"He's a good person who wants to make the world better," said Tisha Schuller, an energy consultant in Colorado and past president of the Colorado Oil & Gas Association who has worked closely with Mr. Wright.
After receiving a diploma from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mr. Wright did graduate work on solar energy at the University of California, Berkeley. In 1992, he founded Pinnacle Technologies, which created software that Mr. Wright called "super nerdy" to measure the motion of fluid beneath the earth. It helped bring about a commercial shale gas revolution. Mr. Wright started Liberty Energy in 2011, and the company has partnered with others on small modular nuclear reactors and geothermal energy.
Mr. Wright's stake in Liberty Energy is worth $50 million, according to Forbes, and a recent SEC filing put his compensation last year at $5.6 million. He helped establish a charity, the Bettering Human Lives Foundation, to promote cookstoves using liquefied petroleum gas in Kenya and elsewhere. They are considered better for the environment and health than traditional cooking fuels of kerosene, biomass and coal. Records show the foundation started in 2023 with $11,450 in assets and spent all of it on administrative costs. The foundation did not respond to a request to discuss its work.
Some who work on energy poverty said Mr. Wright's views had merit.
Todd Moss, executive director of the Energy for Growth Hub, a research organization, said tackling climate change was not the responsibility of the world's poorest countries who have done little to cause the problem. In some countries, fossil fuels may still be needed to power factories and industries to spur economic prosperity, he said. Any effort that is too strict and "puts climate above development" would hurt poor countries, Mr. Moss said.
But scientists have maintained that Mr. Wright has selectively used data to downplay the impacts of climate change.
While he acknowledges that the planet is warming, Mr. Wright has inaccurately said that it is a modest and distant threat. He has denied the well-established connection between climate change and extreme weather, wrongly claiming that hurricanes, droughts and floods are not becoming more intense.
"We're impoverishing people today, those least able to bear it and afford it, for what the economic work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows is a slow-moving, modest impact two or three generations from now," Mr. Wright said on the "WOW Factor" podcast last year. "That's not a good trade-off."
In fact, the I.P.C.C., the United Nations' top scientific body, found last year with very high confidence that "there is a rapidly closing window of opportunity to secure a livable and sustainable future for all." It recommended nations make an immediate and drastic shift away from fossil fuels to prevent the planet from crossing a critical threshold for global warming within the next decade.
Mr. Wright "may not have read an I.P.C.C. report since 1990," said Robert E. Kopp, a climate scientist at Rutgers University and a lead author of an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report published in 2021.
#34
A central location and web of gas pipelines are helping boost gas imports in the country even as it tries to stick to its clean energy goals.
The Eemshaven harbor in the Netherlands. When Russia invaded Ukraine, Dutch officials understood the role the Netherlands could play in mitigating the energy emergency.Credit...Ilvy Njiokiktjien for The New York Times
Two enormous vessels tethered to a pier in the Eemshaven harbor in the Netherlands form the centerpiece of this country's riposte to Russia's throttling energy supplies to Europe.
On a blustery fall day, the Gaslog Georgetown, at nearly 1,000 feet long, was pumping liquefied natural gas brought from the U.S. Gulf Coast into a ship designed to receive the chilled fuel and send it into pipelines onshore.
These cargoes of L.N.G., which started arriving in mid-September, are bringing massive transfusions of natural gas not only to the Netherlands but also farther on to other energy-hungry European countries, including Germany and the Czech Republic.
When Russia invaded Ukraine in February, the energy authorities in the Netherlands understood that Europe faced a dire threat - but also that their country, with its central location and extensive pipeline links, could help prevent the continent from shuddering in the cold this winter.
"We realized that the Netherlands is again very important for Europe," said Ulco Vermeulen, a board member and executive at Gasunie, the state-controlled energy infrastructure company. "We can load supplies and bring them to destinations in Europe."
But in a country where environmental concerns are a high priority, the growing reliance on L.N.G. has created unease. Home to one of the world's largest natural gas fields, the Netherlands is now dotted with clean energy initiatives, testament to the European Union's goal to be a net-zero emitter of greenhouse gases by 2050. A court in The Hague last year ordered Shell, one of the country's largest companies before it moved to London, to speed up its reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by curbing production and sales of oil and gas.
Dutch environmental groups are skeptical about letting energy companies like Shell, which has contracted to purchase some of the L.N.G. coming into Eemshaven, use new sources of natural gas, even for a few years in an emergency. They say the investment in the infrastructure around the terminals, amounting to billions of euros, may lead to a steady stream of L.N.G. imports well after the energy crisis has passed.
because of the energy crisis in Europe.Credit...Ilvy Njiokiktjien for The New York Times
"There is a certain lock-in effect that may be in play," said Kirsten Sleven, a campaigner for Milieudefensie, the Dutch branch of Friends of the Earth, which brought the case against Shell.
Countries around the globe are struggling with similar issues. There is a danger that governments will "learn the wrong lesson" from the crisis, "putting near-term energy security first and leaving thinking about climate change for tomorrow," said Jason Bordoff, director of Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy.
Dutch energy executives believed they were facing an emergency as the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, started threatening to cut off gas supplies to Europe over its opposition to the invasion of Ukraine.
Compressing into months what might normally have been years of negotiations, regulatory approvals and construction, Mr. Vermeulen, port officials and other executives cobbled together the pipelines, piers and other infrastructure necessary to import liquefied natural gas to guard against a cutoff from Russia.
The facility has two floating L.N.G. terminals - leased vessels bristling with equipment for turning the chilled liquid delivered by oceangoing tankers back into a vapor and sending it into the 
Russia has now severely cut back pipeline gas flows to Europe, but Mr. Vermeulen says the Netherlands will probably have enough resources to get through the winter, when natural gas consumption usually soars. He worries, though, that pipeline bottlenecks may make it difficult to supply parts of Europe.
The Netherlands has also put in place other emergency measures, including allowing coal-fired power plants to ramp up.
European energy officials like Mr. Vermeulen insist that regressing on climate goals is not their aim. For instance, Mr. Vermeulen said that in negotiations for the floating facilities, he had demanded that the leases be limited to five years, even as some parties wanted 10. He figures that by the end of those leases, plenty of other gas-importing capacity will be ready in Europe and hydrogen will start becoming available in commercial quantities.
Others argue that the energy crisis caused by the war in Ukraine could wind up accelerating the shift to cleaner fuels, as natural gas prices have soared. Though benchmark European futures prices have fallen in recent days, they are still about eight times the levels of two years ago, before the crunch began.
Suddenly, clean energy technologies that seemed too costly look more competitive.
"I think the cost of natural gas will be much higher than in the past," said Peter Molengraaf, an adviser to the Dutch government on energy innovation. "I think the relatively high price will make sure it is absolutely economic to move to renewables."
A big concern, though, is whether residents who have been slammed by recent sudden rises in their bills for energy, food and other essentials will be able to afford electric cars or energy-saving heat pumps for their homes. For people earning low incomes, "there is nothing in terms of a positive transition there," said Jacques Wallage, who was a Dutch cabinet minister and mayor of Groningen.
In the Netherlands, the current energy crisis is colored by a long and complex history. In 1959, one of the world's largest natural gas fields was discovered under a roughly 350-square-mile expanse of farmland and picturesque villages in the province of Groningen, which includes Eemshaven. The find spurred the construction of extensive pipeline networks, and provided the Netherlands and neighboring countries with cheap energy, cleaner than coal, for decades.
Over the last decade, those benefits have been overshadowed by earthquakes caused by the gas extraction that damaged homes and made life miserable for residents. "It changed your whole life, the earthquake thing," said Jaap Pastoor, who with his wife, Nienke, runs a dairy farm, where barns and houses suffered damage from the tremors.
After shrugging off complaints for years, the Dutch government, which reaped huge revenues from the gas, in 2019 ordered Shell and Exxon Mobil, which run the Groningen field through a joint venture known as NAM, to wind down gas production to a bare minimum. Reserves worth hundreds of billions of euros are to be left in the ground.
Now, despite having a reserve of gas that could make a major contribution to bolstering European energy supplies, the government is wary of reopening the throttle at Groningen for fear of a backlash, especially from residents.
"We have a strong opinion that they should never reopen the gas field," said Jeanette Ubels, who is rebuilding her earthquake-damaged home in the village of Westeremden and is installing electric heating so as not to depend on gas.
Some say keeping Groningen's gas taps largely closed during an emergency makes little sense.
"The decision is just appalling," said Wybren van Haga, a right-leaning member of the Dutch Parliament. "It is technically flawed, it is politically motivated, and it costs an awful lot of money."
But few observers think the government will allow Groningen to ramp up again except in an extreme situation. The government sees the gas field "as a real, real lender of last resort," Mr. Vermeulen said.
And in the area around the giant gas field, the focus is on shifting to cleaner forms of energy.
"Because of the geopolitical situation we have now with Russia, I feel that everybody sees the urgency" is greater now, said Melissa van Hoorn, the regional minister for climate and energy transition.
Solar power and wind power are growing fast in the Netherlands, and now interest is shifting to hydrogen, a clean-burning fuel that companies are betting will be used in large volumes to store energy and power heavy vehicles and heavy industry. Groningen's network of gas pipelines could someday be used to deliver fuels like hydrogen.
Shell is building in Rotterdam what is expected to be Europe's largest electrolyzer, a device that uses electric power to make hydrogen from water. It would produce "green" hydrogen, because the power would come from a giant wind farm off the coast.
The company, which retains a large presence in the Netherlands despite moving its headquarters last year, is obtaining some real-world experience by supplying hydrogen to a fleet of 32 buses in the Groningen region.
"This is new, so we need to learn how to do this," said Ruben van Grinsven, a Shell general manager for hydrogen.
Cas König, chief executive of Groningen Seaports, which runs the harbors at Eemshaven and nearby Delfzijl, was among the officials who pushed hard to develop the liquefied natural gas terminal so quickly. Still, he said the confrontation with Russia over energy could accelerate the pivot toward clean energy.
He is expanding plans for importing hydrogen, which will be needed in greater quantities than a small country like the Netherlands can produce domestically. The gas could be used by the port's cluster of electric power and chemical plants, and fed to other parts of the Netherlands and neighbors like Belgium and Germany.
"As soon as the infrastructure is there," he said, "the economy will follow."
#35
NAXOS, Greece - On the windswept western tip of one of Greece's largest islands, an unassuming stone building above the Aegean Sea has become an unlikely outpost in this country's fight against climate change.
Camouflaged inside is a new power station linked to an 180-mile undersea electricity cable that ties Naxos to a chain of other breezy vacation playgrounds, allowing the islands to ditch their oil-burning generators for renewable power from Greece's abundant wind and sun.
Nearby islands have become zero-carbon laboratories for companies like Volkswagen to fan out electric cars and wire communities for clean energy. Changes are underway on the mainland too, where dirty lignite coal mines that powered Greece for decades are being fast-tracked for closure.
The push for a transition to clean energy would seem a herculean task for Greece, a country of around 10 million that recently emerged from a devastating decade-long debt crisis and still leans heavily on fossil fuels for power.
But as the European Union seeks to be a global leader in the race to stop climate change, Greece is betting that turning toward a carbon-free future can reshape its economic destiny.
"The growth of the economy is inextricably tied to making ourselves as energy independent as we can," said Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a conservative who took office in 2019 vowing to rebuild Greece, in part based on an environmental agenda.
"Greece can be a paradigm of how energy transition and climate action can create jobs and sustainable growth," he said in an interview.
Whether Greece succeeds matters. As wealthier European countries like Norway and Denmark make strides re-engineering their economies to be more climate friendly, Greece offers a test case of whether - and how effectively - Europe's poorer states can turn away from fossil fuels while providing buffers for those threatened by the change.
The transformation is necessary and strategic. Greece's economy is forecast to rebound 6.1 percent this year after shrinking by nearly 10 percent during the pandemic and by a quarter during the debt crisis. But the government still needs to attract billions in clean-energy investments to help tackle its lingering mountain of debt and a 14 percent unemployment rate, and to build a more solid foundation for future growth.
Greece is getting a powerful financial boost to underwrite these efforts: 30 billion euros (nearly $35 billion) - equivalent to a fifth of Greece's economy - from a European Union recovery fund designed to power a rebound from the coronavirus pandemic.

The Naxos substation, which is hidden inside the specially-designed stone house so as not to be an eyesore for tourists.
Camouflaged inside is a new power station linked to an 180-mile undersea electricity cable that ties Naxos to other islands.
The shift has already raised tensions. Villages are trying to block wind turbines, arguing they will turn away tourists - Greece's main source of income. Citizens are agitating over the loss of mining jobs. And a spike in the price of natural gas, a fuel being used to bridge the switch from oil to renewable energy, is hitting the poorest households, forcing the government to subsidize costs.
Yet the bruising toll of climate change is creating urgency. This summer Greece was ravaged by the worst wildfires in years, as temperatures reached 46 degrees Celsius, or 115 degrees Fahrenheit. Homes were razed and thousands of people were displaced. Almost no corner of Europe was untouched by extreme weather, be it fire, flood or heat.
The underwater cable plugged into Naxos is central to Greece's strategy to attract critical renewable energy investments. The idea is to build Greece's incomplete infrastructure to cycle more solar and wind power through the national grid. Greece aims to produce 60 percent of its power from renewable energy sources by 2030 and be climate neutral by 2050.
BlackRock, Quantum Energy Partners and Fortress Investment Group have said they see a potential bonanza in investing in green development here. American, Chinese and European companies are pitching wind and solar parks, hydroelectric power installations and hydrogen and battery projects to store renewable energy.
The shift has been a long time coming. While turbines and solar panels are scattered across the country, Greece clung to oil and lignite coal for decades as vested Greek oil industry interests thwarted change. Greek islands used oil-burning power generators that cost billions to run and spewed over 2.8 million tons of carbon a year. Investors were spooked by impenetrable bureaucracy and waits of up to 10 years for licenses to build wind or solar farms - something the government has vowed to streamline.
Around half of Greece's energy was still fueled by petroleum products in 2017. But renewable energy and imported natural gas are now grabbing a greater share.
The undersea cable will stitch together Greece's most popular tourism islands, including Mykonos and Santorini, linking them to the mainland power grid for the first time and more than quadrupling their energy capacity, said Nikos Margoutas, a project manager for the state utility operator overseeing the shift. Another cable described as the world's longest will eventually connect the mainland and Crete, Greece's largest island and the one with the most promise for solar and wind energy.
On a recent afternoon, the hair-raising sound of high-voltage electricity crackled above a howling wind outside the Naxos substation, which was hidden inside the specially-designed stone house so as not to be an eyesore for tourists.
"We're laying the groundwork for Greece's green future," said Mr. Margoutas, sweeping his arm toward the azure expanse of the Aegean.
The cable has already improved life on the island in one notable way. For years, blackouts were routine, cutting the lighting at the iconic Temple of Apollo, forcing restaurants to throw out refrigerated octopus and preventing holidaymakers from charging their cellphones.
Since the cable arrived, there have been no blackouts.
Dimitris Lianos, the mayor of Naxos, said there have been no blackouts since the cables arrived.
"It was romantic - you could see the stars," recalled Dimitris Lianos, Naxos's mayor. "But it was a big problem for businesses and visitors."
A parallel program aims to turn around 20 small islands into zero-emission testing grounds for companies partnering with the Greek government.
Volkswagen is replacing cars and public transportation on the island of Astypalaia, with electric vehicles powered by solar energy sources that it is installing. On Halki, an island of only 300 residents, the French energy giant Vinci is erecting photovoltaic fields to power street lighting, homes and businesses at low or no cost.
Yet for all the benefits of a green energy transformation, a tangle of problems remains.
Environmental groups say the government is cleaning up with one hand while polluting with the other.
They cite massive natural gas exploration projects taking place in the Ionian Sea near Crete, Corfu and other islands, which Mr. Mitsotakis has defended as necessary to obtain a resource critical to the clean energy transition. New licenses were granted to Exxon Mobil, Total and Hellenic Petroleum during the financial crisis as Greece faced staggering debts. Some potential drilling grounds near Turkey have ignited geopolitical tensions.
Others are unhappy with the idea of mammoth wind turbines disfiguring the landscape that draws tourism - the one activity that Greece does well. Seven people were reportedly hurt last month on Tinos island - known in Greek mythology as home to the god of the winds because of its breezes - after police clashed with protesters trying to block a truck from carrying a giant wind turbine blade up a mountain.
The backlash on the islands has become so stormy that officials are thinking of installing floating turbines and solar platforms in the sea.
"The government can't just come in with hubris and say, 'We have investors and we're going in,'" said Nikos Charalambides, the head of Greenpeace Greece, which supports the moves toward renewable energy but says citizens aren't being adequately consulted.
On the mainland, over 8,000 mining jobs are threatened by Mr. Mitsotakis's plans to close all but one of Greece's 14 lignite coal-fueled power generators units by 2023. In response, the government has vowed to transform the hardest-hit areas, including Western Macedonia and Megalopolis, a coal town in the Peloponnese, into sites where new types of work would emerge.
The plans are ambitious, calling for carbon-neutral farming, photovoltaic fields, sustainable tourism and entrepreneurial start-up campuses that would theoretically modernize Greece - and create up to 200,000 new jobs in energy and the environment.
Critics are skeptical. At the same time, Greeks understand that the country has no choice but to move forward, said Mr. Charalambides of Greenpeace.
"This is an opportunity for the economy and society to create new jobs and a new perspective," he said.
"Greece has been so depleted by the financial crisis, and so inefficient as a state," he added. "If the green energy transition works here, there is nowhere in Europe where it can't work."
#36
On a windswept Icelandic plateau, an international team of engineers and executives is powering up an innovative machine designed to alter the very composition of Earth's atmosphere.
If all goes as planned, the enormous vacuum will soon be sucking up vast quantities of air, stripping out carbon dioxide and then locking away those greenhouse gases deep underground in ancient stone - greenhouse gases that would otherwise continue heating up the globe.
Just a few years ago, technologies like these, that attempt to re-engineer the natural environment, were on the scientific fringe. They were too expensive, too impractical, too sci-fi. But with the dangers from climate change worsening, and the world failing to meet its goals of slashing greenhouse gas emissions, they are quickly moving to the mainstream among both scientists and investors, despite questions about their effectiveness and safety.
Researchers are studying ways to block some of the sun's radiation. They are testing whether adding iron to the ocean could carry carbon dioxide to the sea floor. They are hatching plans to build giant parasols in space. And with massive facilities like the one in Iceland, they are seeking to reduce the concentration of carbon dioxide in the air.
As the scale and urgency of the climate crisis has crystallized, "people have woken up and are looking to see if there's any miraculous deus ex machina that can help," said Al Gore, the former vice president.
Since the dawn of the industrial age, humans have pumped huge volumes of heat-trapping gases into the atmosphere in pursuit of industry and advancement. It amounted to a remaking of the planet's delicately balanced atmosphere that today has transformed the world, intensifying heat, worsening droughts and storms and threatening human progress.
"Collector containers" where air is pulled in.Credit...Francesca Jones for The New York Times
As the risks became clearer, political and corporate leaders pledged to keep global average temperatures to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius higher than before the Industrial Revolution. But for several months last year, the world briefly passed that symbolic threshold, sooner than many scientists expected.
Global temperatures are now expected to rise as much as 4 degrees Celsius, or more than 7 degrees Fahrenheit, by the end of the century. That has given new weight to what some people call geoengineering, though that term has become so contentious its proponents now prefer the term "climate interventions." The hope is that taking steps like these might buy some time at a moment when energy consumption is on the rise, and the world isn't quitting fossil fuels fast enough.
Many of the projects are controversial. A plant similar to the one in Iceland, but far larger, is being built in Texas by Occidental Petroleum, the giant oil company. Occidental intends to use some of the carbon dioxide it captures to extract even more oil, the burning of which is one of the main causes of the climate crisis in the first place.
Some critics say that other types of interventions could open up a Pandora's box of new problems by scrambling weather patterns or amplifying human suffering through unintended consequences. In effect they are asking: Should humans be experimenting with the environment in this way? Do we know enough to understand the risks?
"We need more information so we can make these decisions in the future," said Alan Robock, a professor of atmospheric science at Rutgers University. "Which is riskier: to do it, or not to do it?"
Others argue that fanciful or costly technologies will simply waste resources and time, or lull people with the false idea that it will be possible to slow global warming without phasing out fossil fuels.
There is also the risk of rogue actors barreling ahead with their own efforts to change the climate. Already, Mexico has banned what's known as solar radiation modification after a start-up from California released sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere without permission.
And then there is the fact that, because these technologies are so new, there is relatively little regulation governing them.
"There are these much bigger questions around who decides how is this is all coordinated over time," said Marion Hourdequin, a professor of environmental philosophy at Colorado College. "We don't have a great track record of sustained global cooperation."
With a subzero wind whipping down from the fjords, Edda Aradottir trudged through fresh snow to inspect the direct air capture plant in Iceland.
Ms. Aradottir is the chief executive of Carbfix, an Icelandic company that is working with the Swiss start-up that built the plant, Climeworks. Known as Mammoth, the project is a technological accomplishment, powered by clean geothermal energy and capable of capturing up to 36,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide per year and pumping it down into the bedrock.
That is just one one-millionth of annual global emissions. But unlike trees, which can be cut down or catch fire, Climeworks promises to store that carbon dioxide forever.
Inside a series of bunkerlike buildings, dozens of huge fans suck air into bins that contain chemical pellets that absorb carbon dioxide, then release the gas when they are heated up. The carbon dioxide is then mixed with water and pumped more than a mile below the surface, where extreme pressure turns it into a solid in a matter of years, a process known as "mineralization." In effect, the gas becomes part of the rock.
"Over 99 percent of the carbon on Earth is already stored in rocks in the form of minerals," Ms. Aradottir said. "Naturally, it happens over geologic time scales. We're speeding it up."
When Mammoth is turned on in the coming weeks, it will be the largest such facility in the world, even though the amount of carbon it can absorb is still just a drop in the bucket. Global carbon dioxide emissions hit an all-time high of 36 billion metric tons last year.
The Occidental plant, being built near Odessa, Texas, and known as Stratos, will be more than 10 times more powerful than Mammoth, powered by solar energy, and have the potential to capture and sequester 500,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide per year.
It uses a different process to extract carbon dioxide from the air, though the goal is the same: Most of it will be locked away deep underground. But at least some of the carbon dioxide, Occidental says, will also be used to extract more oil.
In that process, carbon dioxide is pumped into the ground to force out oil that might otherwise be too difficult to reach. Techniques like this have made Occidental a company worth more than $50 billion and helped send American crude production to a new high in recent years.
Of course, it is the world's reliance on the burning of oil and other fossil fuels that has so dangerously sent carbon dioxide levels soaring. In the atmosphere, carbon dioxide acts as a blanket, trapping the sun's heat and warming the world.
Today, Occidental says it is trying to become a "carbon management" company as well as an oil producer. Last year, it paid $1.1 billion for a start-up called Carbon Engineering that had developed a way to soak up carbon dioxide from the air, and began building the Stratos project. Today, what was a barren plot of dirt less than 12 months ago is a bustling construction site.
"It's like the Apollo missions at NASA," said Richard Jackson, who oversees carbon management and domestic oil operations at Occidental. "We're trying to move as quickly as we can."
In coming years, Occidental said it planned to build 100 facilities, each capable of capturing 1 million metric tons of carbon dioxide a year. It has struck up a financial partnership with BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager, and made a deal to develop direct air capture plants with Adnoc, the United Arab Emirates' state oil company.
In South Texas, it is planning to build 30 of the plants on the King Ranch, funded in part by $1.2 billion the Biden administration last year awarded to direct air capture projects.
Climeworks also has aggressive expansion plans. It secured a portion of the White House funds for a direct air capture plant in Louisiana, is working with a group of Kenyan entrepreneurs to build a large facility outside Nairobi and has plans to construct plants in Canada and other countries in Europe.
Driving the construction boom is the desire of many corporations to reduce their effect on global warming. Over the past decade, hundreds of multinational corporations have pledged to become carbon neutral by 2040. Rather than phasing out fossil fuels to meet those goals, most companies are finding that they have to pay for carbon credits, which can be acquired by preserving forests, supporting renewable energy projects or paying for carbon sequestration.
Microsoft, JPMorgan and UBS are some of the big companies that have signed long term agreements to buy credits from Climeworks. Amazon, AT&T and the Houston Astros are among those signed up with Occidental.
Bill Gates, the Microsoft co-founder, said last year that he was the largest individual customer of Climeworks, paying the company $10 million each year to offset his sizable carbon footprint.
Yet the grand plans envisioned by direct air capture companies, with hundreds of plants built in the years ahead, are predicated on a market that does not yet exist. Only a handful of big companies have so far proved willing to voluntarily spend millions of dollars on direct air capture credits, and there is no guarantee that the rest of the corporate world will follow suit anytime soon.
Even if more companies do decide to start offsetting their emissions, there are cheaper ways to do so, including by preserving forests and paying for renewable energy. For example, it currently costs between $500 and $1,000 to capture a metric ton of carbon dioxide with direct air capture, compared with just $10 to $30 per ton for most carbon credits today.
"It's very expensive," said Mr. Robock. "And so it's not going to be a solution in the short term or the long term."
till, the business world is bullish. Boston Consulting Group expects more companies to begin buying credits to pay for carbon dioxide removal, and more governments to encourage that buying. In the United States and Europe, governments have started subsidizing the construction of the plants. By 2040, BCG expects the market for carbon dioxide removal technologies could grow from less than $10 billion today to as much as $135 billion.
"Companies will face a rising price on carbon and regulatory pressures that will make them feel compelled to do this," said Rich Lesser, the global chair of BCG.
Although the direct air capture market is still in its infancy, it already has vociferous detractors in academia, activist circles and beyond.
Some say it is little more than a ploy by oil and gas companies to prolong the very industries that are responsible for creating global warming. They point to the extensive evidence that fossil fuel interests for years worked to play down public awareness of climate change, and the fact that some of the captured carbon will be used for additional oil production.
Those concerns were magnified when Vicki Hollub, Occidental's chief executive, last year said direct air capture could "preserve our industry." She added, "This gives our industry a license to continue to operate for the 60, 70, 80 years that I think it's going to be very much needed."
Scientists say an urgent transition away from fossil fuels is necessary to avoid extreme global temperature increases. Last year, nearly 200 countries agreed to begin phasing out oil, coal and gas.
"This is a new wave of denial, deception and delay," said Lili Fuhr, director of the fossil economy program at the Center for International Environmental Law. "You have the fossil fuel industry trying to say we can engineer our way out of this without any major changes to business as usual."
A related line of reasoning holds that the enormous amounts of clean energy needed to power direct air capture plants would be better used powering homes and businesses, thereby displacing fossil fuels such as natural gas and coal that still provide much of the world's electricity.
Ms. Fuhr added that the costs remained high in spite of a growing raft of government support, including a tax credit in the United States worth $180 for every metric ton of carbon dioxide that is captured and stored, a subsidy that is likely to significantly lower Occidental's tax bill in the years ahead. "The industry has been successful in capturing subsidies, just not carbon," she said.
And then there is the fact that even if Occidental and Climeworks make good on their ambitions to build hundreds of new plants in the coming years, they would still not come close to capturing even 1 percent of current annual global emissions.
Mark Z. Jacobson, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Stanford University, said climate interventions in general, and carbon capture in particular, were dangerous distractions from the more urgent work of rapidly reducing the use of fossil fuels.
"There are many solutions that are just not helpful at all, that do not help an iota for climate and don't help an iota for air pollution," he said. "Among these are direct air capture."
Proponents of the technology say that with fossil fuel emissions continuing to rise, the world is fast approaching the moment when any and all solutions to abate global warming should be on the table.
At the least, direct air capture has a role to play, they say, because there might always be at least some greenhouse gases being produced in the future, even if the vast majority of emissions are successfully eliminated. Sucking that carbon dioxide out of the air will be valuable, the argument goes.


But in the longer term, many scientists believe it will be necessary to go further and actually try to remove some of the excess carbon dioxide that has dangerously accumulated over the centuries. Proponents of direct air capture say their technology is suited for such a herculean task.
"No one is arguing you could solve all our carbon emissions with this," Mr. Lesser said. "But it could be a meaningful part of solving a huge problem."
The past year's record temperatures, warming oceans and megafires are all evidence of a deeply uncomfortable reality: We've already been manipulating the planet for the past couple hundred years. In less time than it takes a redwood tree to reach its full height, humans have added enough carbon dioxide to the atmosphere to scramble weather patterns, melt glaciers and wipe out coral reefs.
Viewed this way, today's attempts to slow down or even reverse the warming can be seen as efforts to undo the changes that have already taken place. Whether or not humans can succeed in this most ambitious feat is unclear. It is among the most consequential problems our species has faced.
Yet as people begin to deliberately tinker with the climate in new ways, there are profound questions that are only beginning to be contemplated. If the current extreme weather and temperature rise came about inadvertently, as the unintentional consequence of human development, what might happen when we begin actively trying to control the planet's atmosphere?
"It's true that we have been altering the climate through greenhouse gas emissions for centuries now," said Ms. Hourdequin of Colorado College. "But trying to intentionally manage the climate through geoengineering would be a distinctive endeavor, quite different than the kind of haphazard interference that we've engaged in thus far."
#37
ASERAL, Norway - In a Nordic land famous for its steep fjords, where water is very nearly a way of life, Sverre Eikeland scaled down the boulders that form the walls of one of Norway's chief reservoirs, past the driftwood that protruded like something caught in the dam's teeth, and stood on dry land that should have been deeply submerged.
"You see the band where the vegetation stops," said Mr. Eikeland, 43, the chief operating officer of Agder Energi, pointing at a stark, arid line 50 feet above the Skjerkevatn reservoir's surface. "That's where the water level should be."
"We are not familiar with drought," he added with a shrug. "We need water."
It has been a summer of heat and drought across Europe, affecting nearly every part of the economy and even its normally cool regions, a phenomenon aggravated by human-caused climate change. France has been scarred by vast wildfires, and its Loire Valley is so dry the river can be crossed in places on foot. The Rhine in Germany is inches deep in parts, paralyzing essential commerce and stranding riverboat cruises. Italy is drier than at any time since 1800, and the growers of its iconic rice used for risotto now risk losing their harvest.
But perhaps the drought's most surprising impact can be found in Norway's usually drenched south, where sheep have gotten stuck in exposed mud banks and salmon have lacked enough water to migrate upriver. Hydropower reservoir supplies - responsible for 90 percent of Norway's electricity as well as electricity exports to several of its neighbors - have sunk to the lowest point in 25 years, causing shortages that have driven up both prices and political tensions.
The summer's extreme heat and devastating drought, coming on top of Russia's weaponization of natural gas exports - in response to European Union sanctions for its war in Ukraine - have all combined to expose the vulnerabilities of Europe's energy system in unexpected places and unanticipated ways.
In France, the warmed rivers have complicated the flushing of nuclear reactors, threatening their use. In Germany, the Rhine is too low to transport the coal to which the country is resorting in order to make up for lost Russian gas. And in Britain, the driest July in almost 90 years ignited wildfires around London and left thousands of northern homes without electricity.
"We call it a perfect storm," said Steffen Syvertsen, the chief executive of Agder Energi, who was in nearby Arendal, where the country's political and industry leaders gathered to debate whether the "Energy Crisis," as the local media now call it, required a revisiting of electricity export deals with the European Union and Britain, or new subsidies for Norwegians to alleviate skyrocketing prices.
In addition to the Russian gas cuts, a spike in demand as the economy emerges from the pandemic, a failure to add other renewables like wind to its energy portfolio, and the worst drought in years have sent Norway's electricity prices to record levels, especially in the more heavily populated south.
While Norway is eager to integrate into the European market, the resource-rich country, which is a major exporter of gas and oil, is under pressure to keep more of its energy for itself. "The best way to solve this crisis and get energy security is to as fast as possible be independent from Russian gas," said Mr. Syvertsen. "But that is a big task."
On Tuesday, Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Store told the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, during a visit to Oslo that while Norway would keep its commitments for delivery of electricity to the E.U. market, it could not spare any extra exports of gas.
And Germany needs more gas. The severe drought there has reignited talk of investing in nuclear power and has dried up the waterways crucial for transporting coal.
Germany's coal-fired power plants dot the Rhine's banks from Duisburg in the West to Karlsruhe close to France, but the shallow water level means that large, coal-bearing cargo ships can carry only about a third of their capacity.
Last week, Uniper, a major utility, announced that it would have to lower output from two of its coal-burning power plants because not enough coal could be brought up the Rhine to fire them at full potential.
On Wednesday, the official level of the Rhine at Emmerich am Rhein, a town just upstream from the Dutch border, fell to a historic low, shattering a record set in October 2018. Boats that run too deep to make it up to the higher reaches of the Rhine must now stop to offload some coal and continue on with a lighter load. Smaller boats have sought to pick up the slack, clogging up the water ways.
"We have a lot more ships on the quay wall," said Pascal van Berk, a dispatcher at Orsay coal harbor just north of Duisburg, where a sprinkler system runs around the clock to suppress coal dust and workers load 150 train carriages of coal to carry to already overtaxed rail yards. "I have a lot more to do."
The most severe drought on record in France has also cost the country's energy production, as nuclear plants responsible for more than 70 percent of the country's electricity had to cut down activity temporarily to avoid discharging dangerously warm water into rivers.
Many of France's 56 nuclear plants were already offline for maintenance issues. But the rivers that cool reactors have become so warm as a result of the punishing heat that strict rules designed to protect wildlife have prevented the flushing of the even warmer water from the plants back into the waterways.
France's nuclear power regulator granted temporary waivers this month allowing five plants to continue discharging warmed water into rivers out of what it called "a public necessity."
In Britain, the extreme heat that turned lush fields to straw has led power grid operators to hire more workers amid fears of electricity shortages.
In Norway, a winter without much snow and an exceptionally dry spring, including the driest April in 122 years, reduced water levels in lakes and rivers. Shallow waters in Mjosa, the country's largest lake, kept its famed Skibladner paddle wheel boat tied up at port and prompted city officials in Oslo to send out text messages urging people to take shorter showers and avoid watering lawns.
"Do that for Oslo," read the text message, "so that we'll still have water for the most important things in our lives." In May, Statnett SF, the operator of the national electricity grid, raised the alarm about shortfalls.
But the skies offered no relief and this month, as the country's hydro reservoirs - especially in the south - approached what Energy Minister Terje Aasland has called "very low" levels, hydropower producers cut output to save water for the coming winter.
The reservoirs were about 60 percent full, about 10 percent less than the average over the previous two decades, according to data from the energy regulator.
Southern Norway, which holds more than a third of the country's reservoirs, is dotted with red barns on green fields and fishing boats along the coast. On a stream in the Agder region, a sign put up by the energy company, like a relic from another time, warned, "The water level can rise suddenly and without warning."
But recent months have shown that there is danger in the water level dropping, too. Reservoirs had dwindled to their lowest point in 20 years, at just 46 percent full. One, Rygene, was so low as to force the temporary closing of the plant. On Tuesday, the rainstorms returned, but the ground was so dry, Mr. Eikeland said as he surveyed the basin, that the earth "drinks up all the water" and the water levels in the reservoirs barely rose.
He sped his electric car farther south toward Kristiansand, where a large grid sends electricity around the country's south and to Denmark. In a fenced-off area above the hill, a Norwegian industrial developer was building a data center for clients such as Amazon, which would suck up a significant share of locally produced electricity in order to cool vast computer servers.
This year's drought has only highlighted the urgent need for a wider energy transformation, Mr. Eikeland said.
"The drought shows that we are not ready for the big changes," he said, but also "that we will not accept the high prices."
#38
Let's say you live in the typical American household. It doesn't exist, not in any sense except in a data set, but it's easy enough to imagine. Maybe it's your aunt's, or your neighbor's, or a bit like your own. Since more than half of us live outside big cities, it's probably in a middle-class suburb, like Fox Lake, north of Chicago. You picked it because it's affordable and not a terrible commute to your job. Your house is about 2,200 square feet - a split-level ranch, perhaps. You're in your mid-30s and just welcomed your first child. Together with your partner you make about $70,000 a year, some of which goes toward the 11,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity and 37,000 cubic feet of natural gas you use to heat the house, play video games and dry your clothes. You take six or seven plane flights a year, to visit your mom after her surgery or attend a conference, and drive about 25,000 miles, most of which you barely register anymore, as you listen to Joe Rogan or Bad Bunny. Maybe twice a month you stop at Target and pick up six or seven things: double-sided tape, an extra toothbrush, an inflatable mattress.
You believe that the power and goods you consume are changing the climate but do not believe in your ability to stop it. So when you come into more money, no matter your political leanings or education, you buy a bigger house, another car, more stuff. You barely notice, but in the years since 1988, when James Hansen testified that our burning of fossil fuels was destroying the conditions for life, your home has grown by about 1,000 square feet and you've bought another car, an S.U.V. that's itself 25 percent larger, even though you have fewer kids. All these choices compound so quietly that if you're lucky enough to earn over $100,000 a year, you wind up helping your relatively small social group - about a fifth of Americans - contribute around a third of household emissions. Even if you don't, by the end of the year, your carbon bill is world-historically anomalous but normal among your neighbors: 17 tons for transportation, 14 tons for housing, eight tons for food, six tons for services, five tons for goods.
That household total, 50 tons, represents a carbon footprint of about 25 tons per person. It's a figure that eclipses the global median by a factor of five and is nowhere close to where it needs to be if you - we - want to stave off the worst of warming's effects: around two tons per person.
The task of shrinking our societal footprint is the most urgent problem of our era - and perhaps the most intractable. For most experts, the first steps are obvious and yield the largest and least invasive cuts. Since electricity makes up about 25 percent of the United States' five billion or so tons of yearly emissions, it more than likely begins with decarbonizing the grid. Next comes a push to electrify the transportation sector and regulate industrial production; each contributes about 27 and 24 percent of emissions, respectively. Then come several smaller cuts, to the buildings we live in and the appliances we use, from policies already having success in Europe and Canada: replacing gas-burning furnaces with electric heat pumps, updating building efficiencies and banning air-conditioners and fridges that use hydrofluorocarbon. Exactly how much all these cuts reduce our footprints is difficult to say, because our country spans an entire continent with several climates. But modeling by Energy Innovation suggests that, even after enacting dozens of subsidies, new efficiency standards and introducing new technologies, by 2050, it might only reduce our emissions by half.
This is the problem with any climate policy, big or small: It requires an imaginative leap. While the math of decarbonization and electric mobilization is clear, the future lifestyle it implies isn't always. Right-wing commenters sometimes seize upon this fact to caricature any climate policy as a forced retreat from modernity - Americans forced to live in ecopods - while on the left any accounting seems to cloud the urgency of the moment. A majority of emissions come from just 100 or so corporations, activists argue, a concentration of industrial production that, once decarbonized, could slash the footprint beneath every wall sconce and sandwich. Even if it were true, these arguments conveniently ignore one uncomfortable fact: Walmart, Exxon Mobil and Berkshire Hathaway didn't burn that fuel on their own - we paid them to, or burned it ourselves, because the way we live depends on it. By any standard, American lives have become excessive and indulgent, full of large homes, long trips, aisles of choices and app-delivered convenience. If the possibilities of the future are already narrowing to the one being painted by science with increasing lucidity, it strains even the most vivid imagination to picture it widening again without a change in behavior.
This isn't an American crisis alone. All around the world, developed nations have locked themselves into unsustainable, energy-intensive lifestyles. Among those with the largest footprints are wealthy oil-producing microstates with small populations, like Qatar or Trinidad and Tobago, where the per-capita footprint pushes 60 tons. In the next tier, with the United States, are other sprawling, continent-size countries that use a lot of heating or cooling and where people tend to drive long distances, such as Canada and Australia (around 20 tons). By dint of their density and reliance on mass transit, nations in Western Europe (as well as Japan and South Korea) make up most of the next tier, which cleaves roughly into two groups: places like Germany, Norway and the Netherlands that rely more on fossil fuels (around 15 tons), and places like the United Kingdom, Denmark and France that use a higher percentage of nuclear and renewable power. Though it's half the size of an American's, the footprint of someone in the typical French household still remains unsustainably high: around nine tons.
The problem of reducing our footprints further isn't that we don't have models of sustainable living; it's that few exist without poverty. Imagine another typical household, this time somewhere in the rural tropics, like the Mara region in northwestern Tanzania. You live with five or six others, your husband, parents, grandmother and perhaps two kids, in a 700-square-foot house without electricity, maybe one you built by hand from sun-dried bricks. You cook with firewood and pay for 3G with the few dollars a day you make. All around you, people are clearing forests for corn and rice, damaging ecosystems that otherwise pull carbon from the air. To give your kids a better life, you move to the city, and as you make more money, you rent a bigger house, take more buses, buy an air-conditioner. All these improvements add to your quality of life, ticking you upward on the Human Development Index, but also expand your carbon footprint - the two being so closely tied they could be proxies. No matter your vocation or luck, the only real way for you to make your life better is to burn more fossil fuels. So you do - collectively elevating your country out of those with a footprint close to zero (Afghanistan, the Central African Republic) and into those around two tons: India, the Philippines.
This is the paradox at the heart of climate change: We've burned far too many fossil fuels to go on living as we have, but we've also never learned to live well without them. As the Yale economist Robert Mendelsohn puts it, the problem of the future is how to create a 19th-century carbon footprint without backsliding into a 19th-century standard of living. No model exists for creating such a world, which is partly why paralysis has set in at so many levels. The greatest crisis in human history may require imagining ways of living - not just of energy production but of daily habit - that we have never seen before. How do we begin to imagine such a household?
Late last year, I traveled to Uruguay in hope of glimpsing one possibility. Wedged between its larger and more routinely travelogued neighbors, Brazil and Argentina, the small Latin American country exists as something of an anomaly. With a carbon footprint hovering around the global median of 4.5 tons per capita, it falls within a narrow tier of nearly developed countries within sight of two tons per capita - the estimated amount needed to limit the world to 1.5 degrees Celsius of warming. Often called the Great Exception for its relative wealth and stability in the region, it enjoys a poverty rate around 10 percent and a middle class encompassing more than half the population. It ranks first in South America for political rights and civil liberties. There are countries more prosperous, and countries with a smaller carbon footprint, but perhaps in none do the overlapping possibilities of living well and living without ruin show as much promise as in Uruguay.
Something of Uruguay's character can be read as you descend toward it. One of the smallest and least densely populated countries on Earth, it is composed almost entirely of a single sweep of grasslands, which unfolds gently and is practically uninterrupted by cities or landmarks. Its highest point, Cerro Catedral, reaches 1,685 feet. Its ratio of cattle to people: 4 to 1. Even its official name, República Oriental del Uruguay, or Republic East of the River Uruguay, seems a modest commentary on its relationship to Argentina, whose capital, Buenos Aires, lies just across the water from Montevideo, like a fun-house reflection of a busier metropolis. Flat, quiet and often overlooked, the country has been called "the paradise of fat cows."
The sky was full of low scudding clouds when I landed in early December. In Montevideo, an ocean breeze ran down the boulevards, which were lined with eucalyptus trees and worn Art Deco apartment buildings. After a year of restrictions, the cafes stood open and busy, and the rich were already leaving for their summer homes in Punta del Este. Along the Río de la Plata, which becomes the Atlantic Ocean east of the city, people walked what they call La Rambla, separated from the beach by a crumbling brick sea wall.
In the Cerro neighborhood, west of downtown, I sat beneath a painting of a jaguar in the living room of María Esther Francia. Francia was thin and 71 and wore a matching set of patterned pants and blouse, her dark hair held back loosely from oversize glasses. A former activist and health care worker, she had been an intimate observer of Uruguay's past, and I was curious to hear what she made of its future. Her paintings - mostly landscapes and animals - hung everywhere in her small apartment. They suggested undercurrents. An emerald prairie extended across a brilliant horizon, while spectral figures toiled beneath in mudlike caves. Francia told me that she did not know what future Uruguay was headed toward, only that they were building upon the remains of its history.
Francia grew up in Salto, on the Argentine border, before moving to Montevideo in the 1960s. At the time, Uruguay was prosperous but embattled, the fledgling social democracy growing so unequal that a Marxist-Leninist group called the Tupamaros had begun robbing banks to distribute money to the poor. "What I earned working was not enough to eat," Francia said. "And there were many people in much worse condition." Uruguay's relatively small size and concentration (about half of its 3.5 million people live in Montevideo) had long provided the country a collective sense of purpose - literacy was close to 95 percent and health care coverage was a universal right - but also brought its inequalities to a rapid boil. One of the Tupamaros' more famous slogans read: "Everybody dances or nobody dances."
In 1969, just three months after Francia was married, her husband, Alfredo Cultelli, was killed in the so-called Taking of Pando, when he and other Tupamaros seized the commercial hub. Four years later, while serving a prison sentence, Francia learned that the military had dissolved Parliament. Suspending the right to vote, the ruling junta adopted a neoliberal economic agenda inspired by the Chicago school and began conducting a widespread terror campaign. The twin policies all but broke the tiny country. Industrial productivity initially shot up, as the military cut tariffs and social entitlements. But all this growth came at a price. As the writer Eduardo Galeano once put it: "In Uruguay, people were in prison so that prices could be free." By 1980, somewhere between 300,000 and 400,000 had been exiled and an estimated one in 500 was imprisoned - the highest percentage of political incarceration in the world - many of them subjected to torture, including Francia.
Then in 1982, the bottom fell out of the economy - the peso crumbled and the economy shrank by 16 percent in two years. When Francia returned from political asylum in Sweden in 1985, she found her once-prosperous country unrecognizable: The streets were so empty that residents joked that the "last person in the country had turned off the lights." For much of the next couple of decades, unemployment and poverty fluctuated wildly, as the country struggled to free itself from collapsing economies in Brazil and Argentina and the weight of its own past.
In 2009, Uruguay elected an unlikely leader - José Mujica. A former baker's assistant and flower merchant, Mujica had become notorious as one of the guerrilla leaders of the Tupamaros, with whom he staged at least one bank robbery, before being shot and arrested in 1970. He spent 13 years in prison, escaping at least twice, suffering torture and long stretches in solitary confinement at the bottom of a well. After his election, Mujica's image as a populist folk hero was only further burnished by his deep commitment to social welfare and simplicity. Forgoing the presidential palace, which he opened to the homeless, he chose to continue living on his chrysanthemum farm, donating 90 percent of his salary to charity and driving his 1987 Volkswagen Beetle to Parliament. Today he's considered by many in Uruguay and throughout the world as the archetypal Uruguayan.
As president, Mujica inherited a disastrous energy crisis - and the makings of an extraordinary revolution. Since the 1940s, Uruguay's power had come from a mix of hydroelectric dams and oil-fired thermal plants, but as the country grew throughout the 1990s and 2000s, it delayed plans for developing new energy sources and became increasingly reliant on its thermal plants, all but yoking the country's economy to unstable commodity prices. Blackouts and fuel shortages spread. In 2008, Mujica's predecessor, Tabaré Vázquez, tapped a physics professor named Ramón Méndez to be national director of energy. Méndez saw the problem as existential. While more blackouts threatened the near-term economy, continued reliance on oil undermined the country's sovereignty. A question occupied his work: How could the country achieve energy independence, not just now but into the future?
Many Uruguayans thought the answer was nuclear energy, but the more Méndez looked at the question, the more he felt as if nuclear was just more of the same: a stopgap. "You're still producing waste that has to be taken away from human life for thousands of years," he told me. After manufacturing costs for renewables dropped within competitive range of fossil fuels in 2009, their appeal quickly became apparent: Because the costs were fixed - just investment and upkeep - the country could unshackle its energy sector from commodities. "Energy is not just one thing," Méndez said. "You have to look at the basis of the energy system - the physical aspects, social aspects, geopolitical aspects." Uruguay's landscape offered an additional advantage: an abundance of bright and windy ranchland suitable for large installations. In September 2008, just five months after assuming office, Méndez submitted a plan for a countrywide transition to renewable power.
The plan was ambitious: It proposed decarbonizing the grid by 2020, decreasing the country's energy consumption by 20 percent and creating a domestic green-energy sector from scratch. It passed the cabinet, but when Mujica took office in 2010, he suggested a new approach. Despite his party holding a majority, he believed they needed to reach an agreement with the opposition. When I asked Mujica why, he told me, "Governments pass and people remain." If the plan required attracting international investment and building infrastructure for the next 25 years, broad political support was the only way to ensure its long-term stability. "Historically we had made some very expensive mistakes and we were all aware of that," Mujica said. Those mistakes included a $160 million natural-gas pipeline to Argentina, which never operated at more than 5 percent capacity, because Argentina had hardly any gas to sell them.
Mujica harbored another deeper belief too. For years, he had been arguing that the "blind obsession to achieve growth with consumption" was the real cause of the linked energy and ecological crises. In speeches, he pushed his people to reject materialism and embrace Uruguay's traditions of simplicity and humility. "The culture of the West is a lie," he told me. "The engine is accumulation. But we can't pretend that the whole world can embrace it. We would need two or three more planets." He shared his own experience in solitary confinement, and how years without books or conversation drew him closer to the fundamentals of being: nature, love, family. "I learned to give value to little things in life. I kept some frogs as pets in prison and bathed them with my drinking water," he told me. "The true revolution is a different culture: learning to live with less waste and more time to enjoy freedom."
If some Uruguayans found Mujica's words naïve, many others found his actions inspiring. Méndez, for one, praised the "shared national narrative" Mujica developed. After two months of negotiations, the government reached an agreement, after haggling over the investment's size and proportion of state ownership. By 2016, an array of biomass, solar and some 50 wind parks had replaced the grid's use of oil, helping slash more than half a billion dollars from the country's annual budget. Today, Uruguay boasts one of the world's greenest grids, powered by 98 percent renewable energy.
Nobody seemed more surprised by Uruguay's turnaround than Méndez. In the morning, when I walked to La Rambla to meet him, he possessed such a distracted air of intensity that I picked him out of the crowd almost immediately: a short, graying man in his early 60s with heavy, hooded eyes, three days of scruff and the slightly craned expression of the perpetually curious. Though he's often credited with starting a "green revolution," he didn't set out to transform the Uruguayan way of life, he said. There hadn't been a climate march on Montevideo, or a revolution in the countryside - at least not in the Latin American sense. Before entering politics, in his 40s, Méndez didn't even consider himself an environmentalist.
None of which was to imply that Uruguay's transformation was accidental, Méndez clarified. Just that prevailing economic conditions and something in Uruguay's character had afforded the transition more receptivity than anyone predicted. This was one way in which a career in theoretical physics prepared Méndez for the world of policymaking, he said: "You have to be open to the solutions being very narrow and technical, or very wide and human."
One of the most difficult questions Méndez faced during the transition was how to finance it. When he approached the World Bank, I.M.F. and others, their experts told him a transition on this scale wasn't possible without state subsidies, or the tax base to support them. The country faced other disadvantages, too: It possessed no real green-energy sector, and its utilities were, and would remain, state-run, limiting a private company's ability to control prices. So Méndez leveraged what he did have - a 25-year policy - offering long-term contracts at fixed rates. He pitched it, he said, as good-news-bad-news: "The bad news is that what you produce is not yours. The good news is that I will buy 100 percent of your production." Now the industry standard, these Power Purchase Agreements, or P.P.A.s, have allowed many developing countries access to renewable technology previously available to only the richest.
The gamble paid off, enticing more than $8 billion in investment. And as the energy sector shifted, the mind-set in the country began to shift with it, Méndez said, sometimes in surprising ways. Some bought air-conditioning units, but many kept to their formerly low-consumption habits, continuing to hang their laundry and take the bus, dozens of which in Montevideo were now electric. Others bought plug-in timers to automate their laundries to run at night or installed solar water heaters on their roofs. But for Méndez, the biggest shift was among leaders. In cabinet and business meetings the problems of the future - like how to eliminate industrial waste and phase out gas entirely - began to feel like just that, he said: problems, not crises.
Even Méndez's political opponents conceded that the plan worked better than anticipated. When I met the current minister of industry, energy and mining, Omar Paganini - a member of the center-right National Party - he told me that one of the few downsides of the transition was its sheer momentum. He explained that replacing a lot of power capacity at once requires an enormous investment, but because the costs of both renewable tech and power are declining so quickly, you inevitably overpay. This is one reason developing nations have been slow to adopt renewable energy - spikes in oil costs looked more palatable, especially after subsidies, than an expensive investment with a long payback period, which carried with it the difficulty of securing financing and the baggage of colonial schemes.
"We didn't precisely know what the future would look like," Méndez told me. He compared the confluence of events to the first microsecond after the Big Bang: "What we were building was something unknown. We were building ourselves."
Late for another meeting, Méndez offered me a ride, and we climbed into his car, an old Renault with a smashed left mirror. Earlier, he pointed out several new electric taxis, and I asked if he, too, was going electric. He rubbed his fingers together, suggesting it was too expensive. "The next best thing," he said. "I'm not buying a new car."
If you take La Rambla east from Montevideo, the city gradually thins into a familiar strip of gated neighborhoods, industrial parks and roadside cafes, the avenue widening into a divided country highway running beneath a canopy of LED streetlights and beside dirt frontage roads. Outside the city, on the broad and dusty plain of the pampas, is the landscape that provides the country its power.
I was on my way to see the first commercial wind farm built in Uruguay: Sierra de los Caracoles. The Sierra looked less like mountains than a series of low, rocky hills shaped to their name: "the snails." You could see the wind turbines - 10 in total - studded atop them for miles. I was met there by Tacuabé Cabrera, a director at the state-run utility company, known by its Spanish acronym, UTE. After we donned hard hats, Cabrera led me through a series of ranch fences, beyond which the 220-foot-high windmills stood staggered about a quarter-mile apart. A sign warned of pit vipers, and sheep roamed about the land. Above us, the blades whooshed rhythmically, their heads rotating to the wind like a crowd following a tennis match.
Cabrera's life had followed the rough contours of his country's energy history. A mechanical engineer, he had spent the majority of his years in fossil fuels, with many of them at Montevideo's José Batlle y Ordóñez, then the largest thermal plant in the country. At the time, plants like his still served mainly as a backup to dams, for times of high demand or low rain, making jobs like Cabrera's relatively simple. "The technology is simpler to maintain than renewables," he told me. "You have maybe five energy units compared to, say, 70 separate windmills." But as the energy crisis deepened in the 2000s, Cabrera found himself questioning that logic. "Our plants became hard to maintain," he said. When Caracoles was commissioned in 2008, Cabrera was curious to get involved, despite facing a steep learning curve deep in his career.
Over the next 10 years, UTE and private investors built dozens more wind and solar parks, a record-setting pace thanks in large part to a booming economy. Though it had long been argued that decarbonizing can slow an economy, Uruguay experienced uninterrupted growth for a decade. The plan seemed to be working perfectly until growth leveled out in 2018. Since wind doesn't blow on demand and solar power can't be stored in large capacity, renewable systems function more like reservoirs, anticipating demand with supply. This equation is simple in a growing economy - you build a bigger reservoir - but less so in a shrinking one, since P.P.A.s force you to pay for excess supply. In Uruguay, unused energy sometimes cost the utility as much as $90 million a year, according to officials. But it also allowed them to stabilize the grid and, according to the energy think tank Ember, accomplish something no country besides Denmark and Luxembourg has: shoot beyond 40 percent for wind and solar.
'Those science-fiction scenarios were great to increase awareness. But if you give a minister of agriculture information for the year 2080, that doesn't do anything.'
The offices for UTE are in downtown Montevideo, in the "Palace of Light," a towering white structure flanked by electric-car charging stations. The utility employs about 6,000 people and generates about $1.8 billion a year. When I sat down with Silvia Emaldi, the newly installed president of UTE, I shared with her something Cabrera had mentioned to me: In the new world, demand might need to follow supply. As grids are turned over to energy sources with more fixed outputs, our usage may need to adjust to new limits. We may need to reorganize our most energy-intensive tasks around the hours when wind and sun are most available, or else suffer high prices, power curtailments or rationing. Did she think that was true? Emaldi allowed that it might be, but argued it was more a matter of finding equilibrium. "We're still learning how to balance everything," she said.
Emaldi rose and went to the window behind her. Across the harbor, a flame licked from a refinery, signaling that gas was being burned - for what, she didn't know. "In a small country like Uruguay, we may not have wind at any given moment, so we need to be prepared," she said. "Our job now is to better align supply and demand." Managing spikes in demand was still a particular challenge, as was balancing usage against the weather and times of day. UTE had begun offering something called the Smart Plan, a program meant to encourage less household consumption through a simple incentive: Each customer chose a window during peak hours in which they would have to pay an increased rate, while off-peak hours extended for all through the night, when it was most windy. The hope was that by flattening peaks in demand, UTE could reduce the costly use of backup thermal power.
I asked if decarbonizing the grid was as transformative as some claimed it was. Emaldi agreed that it was, but also acknowledged there were more steps to take, some of them challenging.
From my conversations with Emaldi and other government officials, there appeared to be fundamental tension in how to bring Uruguayans along in the energy transition. On the one hand, the infrastructure shift needed to happen in the background, so the public never lost confidence in the grid - that part had been surprisingly smooth. But on the other hand, it was important to keep people engaged so they would support the necessary changes to come. Emaldi and her colleagues focused their efforts on electrifying transportation and growing the green-energy sector. The government eliminated duties and taxes on electric cars and rebranded a tax on gas as a CO2 tax, with a portion funding green initiatives.
"What comes in the near future will change more lives," Minister Paganini told me. "You have to get into sectors or areas that are much more difficult than just changing the generation of electricity." You need to change human behavior.
Perhaps no behavior is as hard to change - or as destructive - as what we eat. For most of human history, every animal or plant we ate was determined by the climate and ecosystem in which you happened to be born. But fossil fuels gave humanity the ability to choose our food, to transform a rainforest or windblown desert into something fertile and constant, a biotic vending machine from which eaters can select whatever they want whenever they want it. This choice now drives about a third of all global emissions. Most of them stem from the growing process itself - clearing land, fertilizing crops - with the bulk of the rest coming indirectly from the vast web of manufacturing and delivery systems that bring it to us: packaging crackers, refrigerating drumsticks, airlifting avocados.
Within this system, no single food is as destructive as beef. Livestock as a whole are responsible for 14 percent of total global emissions, with cattle said to be the most polluting. While the starkness of these numbers has stirred a push for a worldwide transition to a plant-based diet, the average American still eats 55 pounds of beef a year.
In Uruguay, the appetite for beef is part of the national character. Ranching culture is so dominant that Uruguayans will tell you their country is really two: Montevideo and the ranchlands. The border between them, if you're traveling west from the city, is the mouth of the Santa Lucía River, a braided wetland that empties into the Río de la Plata. Beyond it, the country's tens of thousands of ranches raised some 12 million cattle across the majority of the landscape, producing about 19 million metric tons of greenhouse gases - or close to half the country's total. With the energy sector reduced to almost nothing, ranching remained one of the country's last relatively large footprints. (By comparison, the U.S. livestock industry produces about 254 million metric tons, or a little over 4 percent of the country's total.) It is often said that no country on Earth eats as much beef per capita.
Early one Friday, I found myself passing over the Santa Lucía in a gray Honda driven by Walter Baethgen. A soil scientist and member of the I.P.C.C. team that won the Nobel Prize in 2007, Baethgen is a brown-eyed 67-year-old, with a pair of steeply expressive eyebrows and large craggy features. He was on his way to one of five outposts for the National Agricultural Research Institute (INIA), outside the town of Colonia del Sacramento, where he serves on the board, and had offered to give me a tour of the countryside. As we crossed the river, Baethgen welcomed me to the other Uruguay. On the far side, cattle grazed to their bellies in yellow-tipped prairies.
"Uruguayans will never stop eating beef," Baethgen said. He disagreed with calls for a plant-based diet. From his perspective, the question of whether we should or shouldn't eat beef was irrelevant. "The goal shouldn't be carbon neutrality, but how to make it sustainable," he said. "The Serengeti in Africa - a grassland with large herbivores, like Uruguay - is that neutral? Probably not. But it's a sustainable ecosystem." He was quiet for a moment. "There are problems with cattle destroying ecosystems, problems with water quality, with animal welfare." He allowed that livestock systems based solely on feedlots and lands cleared from rainforests needed to end. "But is there a possibility that some systems continue to exist being very responsible in the midst of climate change?" he asked. "Yes, there is."
Much of Baethgen's thinking was rooted in his boyhood. He grew up in Montevideo but spent summers at his sister's 2,400-acre ranch, riding horses and learning the grassland environments. The family grazed their cattle on grass, rather than on hay or grain, rotating the native herds through wild prairies. It was what gauchos had always done. Baethgen came to the United States for graduate school, earned his doctorate in 1987 and spent the next two decades consulting around the world, mostly with farmers and ranchers in the developing world. In more developed countries, he watched ranching industrialize into a force of deforestation. More than half of crops grown in the United States are now used to feed livestock, who grow fat in feedlots cleared from the prairies that once supported millions of bison. When a job brought Baethgen back to Uruguay around 2000, he was struck by how little of this had come home. Ranchers in Uruguay didn't use antibiotics or hormones, and 90 percent of cattle still fed on hundreds of species of native grasses, a symbiotic relationship that helped sequester carbon in the ground.
Baethgen thought many of the answers for a sustainable cattle industry lay within the land itself. He explained that grasslands function a lot like forests: The grasses pull carbon from the air, converting it into plant matter through photosynthesis. As cows graze, bacteria in their stomachs help break the fiber down, a metabolic process that builds protein-dense muscle but also methane as a byproduct, which gets burped out. This cycle becomes problematic, Baethgen said, only when these ecological processes fall out of balance. "When grasslands are overgrazed," he said, "the soil becomes degraded, and it doesn't absorb and store as much carbon." The same was true for undergrazing. As fields grow thick with woody stalks, the cows simply avoid eating them and the regenerative cycle breaks down.
One reason the global cattle industry had become so damaging, Baethgen said, was that too many grasslands had been razed or degraded. In the short term, feedlots produced more food, often with lower emissions, since cows got fatter faster and burped less frequently, but over the long term, without the grasslands to recycle carbon, net emissions built up. From Baethgen's perspective, every damaged field thus represented a huge opportunity: By restoring grasslands, he could not only pull more greenhouse gases into the ground, but also grow more beef. And since the 1990s, Uruguay has managed a remarkable feat: increasing its annual production of beef without any increase in greenhouse gases - and doing all of this on natural pasturelands.
After a short drive, we stopped for lunch at the Hotel Nirvana in the town of Nueva Helvecia. The town was famous for its Swiss heritage, and the hotel appeared like a mountain chalet lost on the plains. Baethgen lit a cigarillo, and we ordered steaks.
Baethgen pointed out that Uruguay was soon to become the first country in South America to export certified carbon-neutral beef - though their calculations have drawn some criticism. "Texas, Oklahoma, even Colorado - these are rangeland systems like we have in Uruguay," he said. He was aware that the scope of such a re-ranging project was nearly unfathomable. Too much of America's natural prairies had been plowed under for crops or housing. One study estimated that current pasturelands could feed less than 30 percent of America's roughly 27 million beef cattle. Critics also liked to point out that grain diets produced less methane and more meat in less time; a grass diet is simply less caloric, and on top of that, free-roaming cows tended to burn more calories as they wander and graze. But Baethgen saw no reason select producers couldn't aspire to better grassland management. Many already had.
"We can exchange knowledge, but we need good science," Baethgen said - science people can relate to. He believed too much climate science relied on big-picture modeling to drive engagement. "Those science-fiction scenarios were great to increase awareness," he said. "But if you give a minister of agriculture information for the year 2080, that doesn't do anything." He waved a hand over the landscape. "You're providing information, far in the future, with no resolution and no certainty. That's the best combination to ensure paralysis. Nobody does anything."
The question of who bears the responsibility for climate action - individual consumers or corporate polluters - is a fraught and perhaps illusory one. "People pop up all the time to boast of their domestic arrangements or chastise others for what they eat or how they get around," wrote Rebecca Solnit in The Guardian. "The very short counterargument is that individual acts of thrift and abstinence won't get us the huge distance we need to go." The prominent climatologist Michael E. Mann goes a step further, arguing that calls for downsizing alone, such as flying less or going vegan, threaten to spread a delusion. In his 2021 book, "The New Climate War," he writes that carbon footprints are merely part of a "deflection campaign," inspired by the gun and tobacco lobbies, to shift blame to consumers. "A fixation on voluntary action alone takes the pressure off the push for governmental policies to hold corporate polluters accountable."
But the delusion may run the other way as well. In his 2016 book, "The Great Derangement," the Indian writer Amitav Ghosh says it's unwise to reduce climate denial to "only a function of money and manipulation." The sheer level of paralysis, he writes, "suggests that the climate crisis threatens to unravel something deeper, without which large numbers of the people would be at a loss to find meaning." Ghosh wonders if the modern consumer mind-set can ever change, collectively or otherwise: "In a world where the rewards of a carbon-intensive economy are regarded as wealth, this must be reckoned as a very significant material sacrifice."
I thought about these words late one evening as I walked through La Figurita, a neighborhood just north of downtown Montevideo. It was warm, and couples relaxed in lawn chairs drinking mate. A 35-year-old man named Fernando Esponda greeted me by a fruit stand and invited me into his home. He was thin with a sparse black beard and toothy smile. He showed me into the two-bedroom apartment, painted green, that he shared with his girlfriend, Camila Laroca, and their two children, Emilia and Bruno. The living room had a wood-burning stove and opened onto a walled patio tipped in broken glass. Along one side sat two raised garden beds and on the other a room filled with salvaged junk: machine parts, a barbecue, paint cans. Esponda picked up one of the cans. He was teaching his children how to repurpose them into flowerpots, he said. "In Uruguay, we try to use things more than once."
Like many people in La Figurita, Esponda described his family as middle to upper middle class. Both he and Laroca were economists for the city and together made about $30,000 a year. "Everybody in Uruguay is middle class," he said. I thought I knew what he meant. Unlike in the United States, I found it difficult in Uruguay to discern class differences. Conspicuous displays of wealth seemed rare, as were the tiers of consumer goods that otherwise revealed someone's spending. "There's not the American consumerist mentality of 'We need to get the next new thing,'" he said. On trips to New Orleans and Chicago, he had been transfixed by the selection of junk food in convenience stores, the undamaged furniture left on the street. "You guys throw away your whole home," he told me. "Here, most of this stuff wouldn't be trash."
Esponda pointed to his couch, a sagging green camelback. It was given to them by his parents, he said, and barely fit his growing family anymore. But he couldn't find a reason to replace it, even with a dual income that allowed them to save each month. "Why would I?" he said. It was a mentality apparent throughout the couple's apartment. In stark contrast to most American homes with two kids, their apartment wasn't overflowing with toys. Two bikes leaned against the wall by a plastic slide. "Our choices don't really have anything to do with the environment," he said. "It's about saving money, yes, but also being careful with what we buy."

Fernando Esponda, an economist, at home in Montevideo last year. Esponda uses timers to take advantage of nighttime rates.Credit...Alessandro Cinque for The New York Times
Like many people, Esponda did much of his shopping at the outdoor markets that could be found in almost every neighborhood in Montevideo. When I visited the largest, Feria de Tristán Narvaja, which takes up several square blocks every Sunday, shoppers described it to me as the economic heart of the city. Even compared with other developing countries I'd reported from, thrifting and black markets seemed especially common here. Several people described frugality to me as a core tenet of the Uruguayan political project, though globalization had played a role, too. In recent years, Uruguay's production of goods had declined, leaving the country heavily dependent on imports for things like cars, chemicals, plastics and clothing. Between scarcity and some of the world's highest duties and taxes, goods weren't just cheaper at markets but more readily available.
But not everyone felt eager to join the revolution - or was able to. The next morning, I visited a crowded "asentamientos," or settlement, on a hillside overlooking the city. A grid of tin-roofed shacks slumped beneath a 19th-century fort. Nearby stood a crumbling amphitheater that served as a community kitchen, and near that a playground overhung by a latticework of improvised power lines. A woman named Claudia Damborena, who acted as settlement president, told me that the neighborhood didn't have access to electricity. To cook and heat their homes, they were forced to tap into the network illegally, which sometimes electrocuted people and started fires. She wondered why the government would transition to infrastructure that didn't yet serve the entire population. Such conditions stirred theories that the government was passing off its inability to deliver economic growth as environmental stewardship.
It was a view I found shared in some of the richest neighborhoods as well. In Pocitos, at a cafe along the river, an economist named Paula Cobas told me that many felt misled by the transition. "It reduced the cost of generation, so people naturally expected it would reduce their household bills," she said. "But it never happened." While some felt proud of the international recognition, others wondered if the transition had merely been politically convenient. Cobas gave the example of transportation: Though the government subsidized electric cars, few could afford them, so rather than rely on mass transit, which remained crowded and slow, people simply bought cheap cars. Cobas's misgivings about the reach of certain green policies - about their awkward collisions with the realities of Uruguayan life - reminded me of something a man in the asentamientos said to me: "Nobody has confronted the real problem: How will the country grow?"
In many ways, it was the question facing every community. I thought of a single dad I met in Montevideo who said I shouldn't think of his country as a model or example. It was too small, its progress too troubled. It was more like a laboratory for the rest of the world, he said.
We often picture the future as a kind of growth, a set of possibilities to expand and realize, but maybe it could also be the opposite, a present to reconcile and safeguard. Part of the reason America has become so paralyzed by climate change is precisely that we've failed to acknowledge the limits it imposes - on where we can live, the things we can have, the household we can envision. This is a particularly difficult idea to sell to a country perched atop decades of accrued wealth, which was itself amassed by generations imagining further comfort and choice.
But if there was something dangerously naïve about thinking America could aspire to be Uruguay, there was also every reason to think it might one day become some version of it anyway. As the climate worsens, driving ever more natural disasters and resource scarcity, the economy will naturally become more constrained with it, pushing prices higher and choices lower. If I couldn't fathom a reconciliatory politics inspired by a guerrilla, could I imagine fewer hamburgers, more expensive gas, the same apartment? By the time I boarded a plane home, lines of container ships lingered offshore. In the coming months, gas prices spiked, inflation climbed and the price of energy began to strangle Europe. No future seemed as certain as a less abundant one.
On Aug. 16, several months after I returned home, President Biden signed the most significant climate legislation ever passed, the Inflation Reduction Act, which included a package aimed at lowering carbon emissions in the transportation and energy sectors. Independent modeling by Rhodium Group, a research firm in New York, estimated that the bill would cut emissions by between 32 and 42 percent by the end of 2030, compared to 2005. Once mainly a theoretical math problem, cutting nearly one half of the American footprint now seemed conceivable.
At home, the more I thought about the future, the more I found myself thinking about Uruguay. No one country or policy offered a clear vision for the future, but imagining one often began with a simple act: Someone peers over a new horizon, and squints. Outside the town of Florida, three hours north of Montevideo, I had lemonade with a man named Ignacio Estrada. We stood in the shade on a ranch called Los Ombúes, for the wide canopied trees common to the pampas, and watched three gauchos separate cattle, marking those for slaughter with red paint. In the distance, wind turbines turned over cornfields, where earlier we saw a flock of Nandu, a flightless bird resembling an ostrich.
A former bank analyst at Bear Stearns, Estrada had decided to take a 75 percent pay cut to return home and eventually took a job with a local energy firm. "I read studies about how there's a diminishing return on happiness above a certain income, and I experienced that," he told me of living in New York. "I had more money than I had things I wanted to buy." He said that contracting his life had allowed him to be more mindful of its details. It reminded him of the household his parents ran in the 1980s, when things were so precarious. No one left lights on or wasted water. They were mindful of the things they bought.
"We learn to live with less here," he said. "And it's made my life better."
As I left the ranch, the gauchos came up to meet me. They wore their pants tucked into leather boots and long knives across their backs. These men practiced one of the oldest professions in Uruguay, and I wondered how they weighed a changing future.
One gaucho with a faded pink beret and a scar over a missing eye shrugged. "Life is maybe changing," he said. "But I can't explain those things as well as I can explain horses and cows." The capataz, or boss of the ranch, agreed. "There is less rain. Shorter grass. There are these windmills," he said. "It's something new. But I can't explain what will happen. I concern myself with what I can."
#39
Natural gas surpassed coal as the country's top source of power in 2016, and renewables like wind and solar have grown quickly to become major players in the U.S. power system.
But every state has its own story.
In Nevada, natural gas became the top source of electricity generation in 2005, earlier than in many other places. More recently, solar power has surged there.
Wind has taken off in Iowa over the past two decades, beating out coal in 2019 to become the state's largest source of power generation.
Even in Wyoming, where coal still dominates, alternative sources of power have made steady gains.
Fossil fuels still generate the majority of America's electricity, but the shift from coal to natural gas and renewable power has helped reduce planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions and other harmful pollution.
Last year, coal was the top electricity fuel in 10 states, down from 32 states in 2001. Natural gas largely took over during that time, but wind also emerged as a leading power source across the Midwest.
Still, experts say there is a long way to go if the country wants to zero out emissions from the power sector to fight climate change, a goal set by President Biden.
Switching from coal to gas "gets you part of the way there," said Melissa Lott, a professor at the Climate School at Columbia University, because burning natural gas for power produces fewer carbon dioxide emissions than burning coal. But fewer emissions is not the same as zero emissions, she added. "Many more technologies, including renewables, need to be built quickly to get us all the way to our climate goals," Dr. Lott said.
Mr. Biden's signature climate and energy law, the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, aimed to turbocharge the growth of renewable wind and solar energy nationwide and to support other technologies that could reduce emissions from the power sector, like nuclear energy, advanced batteries and carbon capture and storage for gas plants. But the future of that law remains uncertain in an election year, with Republicans promising to repeal many of its clean-energy provisions.
What happens at the federal level is only part of the equation. States have the power to accelerate, slow down or block new energy development, too.
We charted how electricity generation has changed in every state so far, from 2001 to 2023, using data from the United States Energy Information Administration. Find your state below:
In 2001, coal fueled more than half of the electricity produced in Alabama, but many of the state's aging coal power plants have closed since then or shifted to burning cheaper natural gas. By 2014, gas had become the top electricity source in the state, followed by nuclear. And, last year, coal fueled just 14 percent of the state's electricity generation.
Hydro has long been Alabama's largest source of renewable power. The state produced less than 1 percent of its power from solar energy last year.
Alabama generates more electricity than it consumes and typically sends about one-third of its output to nearby states. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
Natural gas has been Alaska's top source of power for two decades, providing more than half of the state's electricity in most years. Hydro, petroleum and coal supply most of the rest. In 2010, Alaska set a nonbinding goal to produce 50 percent of its electricity from renewable and alternative energy sources by 2025, but the state has only seen a small uptick in wind power generation since then.
Alaska has its own electric grid, which means "whatever electricity is created there is what they're consuming," said Glenn McGrath, a power systems analyst at the U.S. Energy Information Administration. "It's about as isolated as you can get."
Many rural communities in Alaska are not connected to the main grid and use diesel generators for power, although smaller, community-based wind turbines are becoming more common.
Coal was Arizona's top source of electricity generation until 2016, when natural gas surpassed it. Coal-fired generation has declined rapidly over the past decade as some of the state's coal power plants shut down and others switched to cheaper natural gas.
In recent years, natural gas has taken over as the state's top source of power, with gas fueling 46 percent of Arizona's electricity generation last year. The state is also home to the second-largest nuclear power plant in the country.
Arizona makes more electricity than it uses and exports power to nearby states. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
The state has abundant solar resources. Its largest utility, Arizona Public Service, set a voluntary goal of getting 65 percent of its electricity from carbon-free sources by 2030 and 100 percent by 2050. However, the utility lobbied against proposals to codify these renewable goals into law.
Coal was the largest source of electricity generation in Arkansas for much of the past two decades. But its role in the state's electric mix diminished over time as natural gas power expanded. After vying with coal for the top slot, gas has been the state's largest source of power generation since 2022.
Arkansas generates more electricity than it consumes and sends power to nearby states. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
Natural gas has been California's top electricity fuel since 2001, but more than half of the power produced in the state last year came from renewable energy and other carbon-free sources, including solar, wind, geothermal, hydro and nuclear.
Solar power, in particular, has grown rapidly over the past decade, largely because of supportive state policies. At the same time, nuclear power has declined. (One of the state's two nuclear plants closed in 2012. The other is now slated to retire in 2030.)
California has often led the way on clean power, using state policy to encourage the adoption of clean power technologies like solar panels and giant grid batteries. In 2018, the state set a goal for utilities to get all of their electricity from zero-carbon sources by 2045. State utilities and regulators are now wrestling with how quickly they can reduce dependence on natural gas while still maintaining a reliable power supply.
California consumes more electricity than it generates within its borders and typically imports about one-fifth to one-third of the power it uses. (Imports are not reflected in the chart above.)
Coal has been Colorado's top source of electricity for more than two decades. But coal-fired generation shrank to 32 percent of the state's power mix last year from 76 percent in 2001. At the same time, natural gas and wind power increased their role in the state's electric mix. In recent years, wind turbines have supplied more than a quarter of the electricity produced in Colorado, enough to become the state's second-largest source of electricity in 2021 and 2022. But gas power topped wind again last year.
Colorado aims to get 100 percent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2040. The state's largest utility, Xcel Energy, plans to phase out its remaining coal-burning power plants by 2030 in favor of cleaner alternatives.
Colorado usually consumes more electricity than it generates and imports power from nearby states. (Imports are not shown in the chart above.)
Natural gas and nuclear energy have fueled the vast majority of Connecticut's electricity generation over the last two decades. But gas generation has increased substantially since 2010 and gas now supplies nearly 60 percent of the power produced in the state.
At the same time, the amount of electricity that comes from other fossil fuels, including coal and petroleum, has declined. Connecticut's last remaining coal plant, Bridgeport Harbor, was retired in 2021.
Connecticut aims to get 100 percent of its electricity from zero-emissions sources by 2040. Last year, nuclear power provided 33 percent of the state's electricity generation and an additional 5 percent came from renewable sources, mostly solar.
Natural gas displaced coal as the primary source of electricity produced in Delaware in 2010 and has dominated the state's power mix since then. Coal generation, meanwhile, has dwindled. Coal fueled 70 percent of the state's power generation in 2008, its peak year, but only provided backup power during some months last year.
In part because of this shift, carbon dioxide emissions from the state's electricity sector have fallen over the past decade. Delaware requires that state utilities generate or procure 40 percent of their electricity from renewable sources by 2035, including 10 percent from solar.
Power produced in-state typically supplies "much less than the state needs," according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Delaware gets the majority of its electricity from neighboring states through the regional grid. (Imports are not shown on the chart above.)
In 2001, more than one-third of the electricity produced in Florida came from burning coal. Two years later, natural gas surpassed coal as the state's top source of power generation and has continued to expand its share in the state's electric mix ever since. By last year, natural gas fueled three-fourths of Florida's electricity generation, significantly higher than the national average.
Despite its nickname, the Sunshine State has been slow to adopt solar power. But utility-scale solar installations have picked up in the last few years. Florida is the second-largest producer of electricity nationwide, after Texas, but still imports a small amount of power from neighboring states to meet consumer demand. (Imports are not reflected in the chart above.)
In 2024, Florida lawmakers passed a bill that cuts support for renewable energy projects and makes it easier to build natural gas infrastructure. The new law prohibits construction of offshore wind turbines in state waters, repeals state grant programs that encourage energy conservation and renewable energy and cancels the state's voluntary renewable energy goals.
Coal provided the majority of Georgia's electricity generation through the 2000s but declined sharply during the 2010s as natural gas power increased. Gas has been the state's top source of power for most of the last decade, with nuclear power often in second place.
Georgia is the only state to bring new nuclear capacity online in recent years: Two new reactors that opened in 2023 and 2024. They were the first new nuclear reactors in the country to be built from scratch in decades, but the projects were plagued by delays and significant cost overruns.
Solar power has also grown quickly in the state in recent years, providing about 6 percent of Georgia's power in 2023. The state is also still expanding fossil fuel power. Georgia Power, the state's main utility, plans to build several new generating stations fueled by oil and gas in the coming years to serve growing power demand from data centers and new clean-energy manufacturing hubs.
Hawaii has relied heavily on imported oil to make electricity for the past two decades. But the state has an ambitious plan to generate all of its power from clean energy sources by 2045. In September 2022, Hawaii shut down its last coal-burning power plant, a major milestone toward that goal. Last year, there was no utility-scale coal generation in Hawaii for the first time since the early 1970s, but delays in the deployment of new solar and battery projects meant oil-fired generation ticked up.
The state recently opened a new, large-scale battery storage facility as part of its strategy to replace the coal power that was retired. (Battery charging and discharging is not shown in the charts above, which reflect net generation.)
Solar generation, mostly from small-scale rooftop panels, has grown rapidly in the state over the past decade and provided nearly 20 percent of Hawaii's power last year. In total, about 31 percent of the state's electricity was made by renewable sources in 2023.
Hydro generated the vast majority of Idaho's electricity during the 2000s and early 2010s. But in recent years, drought conditions have pushed down the amount of hydroelectric power produced in the state. Idaho still makes the majority of its electricity from renewable sources, with hydro providing 43 percent of in-state power generation last year and wind and solar together providing an additional 22 percent. But natural gas power has expanded significantly at the same time.
Idaho also imports a sizable amount of power from out of state to meet its electricity needs. In the past, much of this power has come from coal-fired generators in neighboring states, but Oregon closed its last coal plant in 2020 and other nearby coal plants are scheduled to shut down over the next several years. (Imports are not shown on the chart.)
Nuclear energy has been Illinois's top source of power generation for much of the last two decades, accounting for about half of the electricity produced in the state during most years. Coal was long the second-largest power source, briefly surpassing nuclear as the top generation fuel in 2004 and again in 2008. But coal's role in the state power mix has declined significantly in recent years as older coal-fired power plants have retired or been converted to burn natural gas. Both natural gas and wind generation have grown over the past decade, and last year gas surpassed coal as the second-largest source of power in the state.
In 2021, Illinois set a goal of getting 100 of its power from carbon-free energy sources by 2050, but the state has struggled to meet shorter-term targets. Illinois produces considerably more electricity than it uses and sends about one-fifth to Mid-Atlantic and Midwestern states through long-distance transmission lines. (Exports are not shown on the chart.)
Coal fueled most of the electricity made in Indiana for more than two decades, but its share in the state's power mix has declined as natural gas generation has taken off and older coal-fired power plants have retired. Last year, gas provided nearly 40 percent of the state's electricity generation, up from 2 percent in 2001.
About 14 percent of the state's electricity came from renewable sources last year, mostly wind. Over the past decade, Indiana has used more electricity each year than it produces within its borders and imported the rest from out of state. (Imports are not shown on the chart above.)
Wind power has taken off in Iowa over the past decade, surpassing coal as the state's top source of electricity in 2019. Wind turbines provided just 1 percent of the electricity produced in the state in 2001 and nearly 60 percent last year. Over the same period, coal-fired generation significantly declined.
In absolute terms, the state, one of the windiest in the country, was the second-largest producer of wind power last year, after Texas. But, as Iowa's wind capacity has grown, so has local opposition to new projects. In recent years, a number of Iowa counties have paused the construction of new wind turbines and some solar projects, too.
In 1983, Iowa became the first state in the country to pass legislation requiring utilities to get some amount of electricity from renewable resources, but the state has not updated those standards since. Iowa exports some of its power to nearby states over the regional electric grid. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
Kansas, like many states across the Great Plains, has seen significant growth in wind power over the past decade as developers put up thousands of turbines to capture the strong winds blowing across the open prairie. In 2019, wind surpassed coal to become Kansas' largest source of electricity generation and has remained the state's top power producer since then.
Kansas produces more power than it consumes and sends about a quarter to other states through the regional grid. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
Coal still generates the majority of the electricity produced in Kentucky, a longtime coal mining state. But a number of the state's older, coal-fired power plants have shut down or been converted to burn natural gas over the past decade. Coal fueled 68 percent of the power produced in the state last year, down from more than 90 percent during most of the 2000s and early 2010s.
Natural gas has long provided the bulk of electricity generation in Louisiana, one of the top gas-producing states in the country. But as coal generation declined in recent years, gas further expanded its share of the state's electric mix. Last year, gas accounted for 76 percent of electricity made in the state, up from 46 percent in 2001. During that time, coal-fired generation declined, dropping from its position as the second-largest source of power in the state to a distant third place.
Louisiana also imports some electricity from neighboring states. (Imports are not shown in the chart above.)
Most of the electricity generated in Maine last year came from renewable sources. Together, hydroelectric dams, wind turbines, solar arrays and biomass plants, which burn wood and other organic materials, produced about 69 percent of the state's power.
However, the total amount of power generated in Maine, particularly from natural gas and petroleum, has declined significantly over the last two decades. The state now imports between 10 and 30 percent of its electricity each year from other nearby states and Canada. (Imports are not shown on the chart above.)
Maine has a goal of getting 100 percent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2050.
Coal produced the bulk of Maryland's power through the early 2010s, but its role in the state's electricity mix has declined significantly over the last decade. Coal fueled just 5 percent of electricity made in the state last year, down from more than 40 percent a decade earlier (and an even greater share before then). Nuclear power became the largest source of electricity generation in 2015 and quickly growing natural gas power surpassed nuclear for the first time last year.
While solar power is still a small part of the state's generation mix, it has grown rapidly over the past several years, beating out hydro as the state's largest source of renewable electricity. Maryland requires that 50 percent of the electricity sold by utilities in the state come from renewable sources by 2030.
Maryland consumes more power than it generates and imports a significant amount of electricity from other Mid-Atlantic States through the regional grid. (Imports are not shown on the chart above.)
Natural gas has expanded its share of electricity generation in Massachusetts over the past two decades as other sources of power have declined. Coal-fired generation petered out in the state by 2018. And petroleum, which is mostly used to meet peak electricity demand during the winter, now provides only a small fraction of the power it did two decades ago. The state's only nuclear plant, which was responsible for between 10 and 20 percent of the state's electricity generation in previous years, shut down permanently in 2019, partly because of competition from cheaper natural gas.
Only solar power has bucked the trend: The amount of electricity created from solar energy, largely through small-scale rooftop panels, has grown significantly since 2013 and now provides nearly a quarter of the state's power. Still, Massachusetts makes less power today in absolute terms than it did two decades ago and now imports about half of its power from other Northeastern states through the regional grid. (Imports are not shown in the chart above.)
Massachusetts lawmakers have sought to encourage the adoption of more solar and wind power. (The state's first offshore wind project started producing electricity this year.) The state requires utilities to get 80 percent of the electricity they sell from renewable sources by 2050.
Coal was the top source of electricity produced in Michigan for most of the last two decades, but coal-fired generation declined steadily during the 2010s and 2020s as natural gas power expanded. After years of growth, gas became the state's top source of electricity for the first time in 2020 and retook that top slot in 2022 and 2023. Nuclear was the second-largest source of power produced in the state last year, with coal falling to third place.
Nuclear energy is the state's largest source of emissions-free power. It fueled 23 percent of the electricity produced in the state last year. Wind power generated an additional 7 percent, and solar delivered less than 2 percent. Michigan recently set a goal to get 100 percent of its electricity from zero-carbon energy sources by 2040.
To shore up more emissions-free power, Michigan now wants to reopen a nuclear plant that shut down in 2022, with help from a $1.5 billion loan from the Biden administration. If the plan goes through, it would be the first shuttered nuclear plant to reopen in the United States.
Coal was the top source of electricity produced in Minnesota for years, but its generation share has declined over the last two decades and, in 2020, coal-fired power generation dropped below nuclear for the first time. Wind power, meanwhile, grew from 2 percent of the state's total generation in 2001 to 25 percent in 2023. Wind became the state's top power producer last year.
Emissions-free energy sources, including wind, solar and nuclear power, now provide more than 50 percent of the power produced in Minnesota. State law requires electric utilities to generate or procure 100 percent of their electricity from carbon-free sources by 2040. Minnesota also imports some power from other states through the shared regional grid. (Imports are not shown on the chart above.)
Natural gas powered more than three-quarters of the electricity generated in Mississippi last year. Coal, once the state's top source of electricity, has declined significantly over the past decade as natural gas prices have fallen. Coal provided 36 percent of the electricity produced in the state in 2001, but just 5 percent in 2023.
Mississippi produces more power than it uses and exports the surplus to other states. (Exports are not shown on the charts above.)
Missouri's electricity generation mix has been dominated by coal for more than two decades. Still, coal-fired power declined to 59 percent of all electricity generated in the state in 2023 from 82 percent in 2001 as older coal plants went offline or switched to natural gas. Gas- and wind-powered generation have made gains over the past decade, but, despite a dip in 2021, nuclear remains the state's second-largest source of power.
Missouri typically uses more electricity than it generates in-state and pulls power from other states through regional grids. (Electricity imports are not shown on the charts above.)
Coal has been the top source of electricity produced in Montana for most of the past two decades, but its share of the state's generation mix has declined as wind power has grown and older coal-fired power plants have been retired. Hydro, long the state's second-largest source of electricity, briefly surpassed coal as the top power-producer in 2020, but hydroelectric generation dropped significantly by 2023 amid drought conditions.
Montanans only use about two-thirds of the electricity produced in the state. Much of the rest is sent to Washington and Oregon via interstate transmission lines. New transmission projects are in development that could expand how much Montana-generated electricity moves to other states (and the other way around, when needed).
Coal has been the top source of electricity produced in Nebraska for more than two decades, but its generation share has declined in recent years as wind power has surged. The amount of nuclear power produced in Nebraska also declined after one of the state's two nuclear plants, Fort Calhoun, permanently shut down in 2016 for economic reasons.
Nebraska, like many Great Plains states, has excellent wind resources, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, but as more wind turbines and solar farms have been built, local opposition to the projects has increased. Several Nebraska counties recently put in place moratoriums on new wind and solar projects, and others have instituted strict requirements for where they can be built.
Nebraska produces more power than it consumes at home and sends the rest to other states through long-distance transmission lines. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
Natural gas surpassed coal as Nevada's top source of power generation in 2005 and has been the state's largest electricity supplier since. More recently, solar has surged to become the state's second-largest source of electricity.
In the meantime, coal power has continued to decline. Many of the state's older, coal-fired power plants have shuttered over the past two decades because of competition from cheaper natural gas and state laws that require renewable energy development. Nevada's two remaining coal plants are scheduled to be converted to natural gas by 2026.
Last year, about 40 percent of the power produced in the state came from renewable energy. Large-scale solar arrays and rooftop panels provided 26 percent. Geothermal plants, which harvest heat from deep beneath the Earth's surface, supplied an additional 10 percent. Most of the rest came from hydro. (The Hoover Dam, one of the country's largest hydroelectric dams, sits on Nevada's border with Arizona, providing power to both states.)
The rapid growth of solar power in recent years has prompted the state to strengthen its goals for renewable energy. Nevada law now requires that 50 percent of the electricity sold by utilities in the state come from renewable sources by 2030.
The bulk of electricity generated in New Hampshire over the past two decades has come from the state's only nuclear reactor, Seabrook Station. Natural gas has been the state's second-largest source of power since the early 2000s, when two new generating stations went online. The share of electricity supplied by coal has declined over the past two decades, shrinking to about 1 percent in 2023 from 25 percent in 2001.
New Hampshire currently generates about 16 percent of its electricity from renewable sources, mostly hydro and biomass, a type of energy that comes from burning wood and other organic matter. The state requires utilities to get 25 percent of the power they sell to customers from renewable sources by 2025, a target they can fulfill by purchasing renewable energy credits.
New Hampshire produces more power than it consumes and sends the excess to other New England states and Canada. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
Nuclear was the top source of electricity generation in New Jersey until 2015, when natural gas surpassed it for the first time. Over the past decade, natural gas and nuclear energy have produced almost all of the state's electricity, but solar has made inroads, supplying 7 percent of power last year.
In 2018, the state's Oyster Creek nuclear plant, the oldest in the country at the time, closed down, partly because of competition from cheaper natural gas. That same year, the New Jersey Legislature approved new subsidies to keep the state's remaining three nuclear plants profitable. The governor, Philip D. Murphy, said the plants provided crucial, emissions-free power that would not contribute to climate change and pointed to "the thousands of jobs they support."
New Jersey has a renewable energy standard that requires 35 percent of the electricity sold in the state to come from renewable sources by 2025, with that requirement increasing to 50 percent by 2030. To help reach those goals, the state wants to build wind farms off its coast, where there is considerable wind power potential. But proposed projects have stirred up fierce local opposition.
The state consumes more power than it produces within its borders and imports electricity from nearby states through the regional grid. (Imports are not included on the chart above.)
Coal was New Mexico's primary source of electricity generation for most of the last two decades. But coal-fired power has declined since the 2000s in response to tougher air quality regulations, cheaper natural gas and California's decision in 2014 to stop purchasing electricity generated from coal in neighboring states. Over the past decade, wind-powered generation has surged in New Mexico, and, in 2022, wind surpassed coal as the top source of electricity produced in the state.
New Mexico has some of the best wind, solar and geothermal energy resources in the country, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Last year, the state produced more than 46 percent of its power from renewable energy, mostly wind and solar. State law requires investor-owned utilities to get 50 percent of the electricity they sell from renewable sources by 2030, and 100 percent from a broader array of carbon-free sources by 2045.
The state already exports a significant amount of electricity to Arizona and California, but it could soon become an even bigger power supplier. Last year, officials broke ground on a major new transmission project that will send renewable wind power from central New Mexico to more-populated parts of the West. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
Natural gas and nuclear energy have fueled the majority of New York's electricity for the past two decades. But gas has expanded its role in the state's power mix during that time, while nuclear generation declined in recent years. The state shut down its controversial Indian Point nuclear plant in 2021, causing nuclear generation to fall and greenhouse gas emissions to rise.
Last year, about 32 percent of the power produced in New York came from renewable sources, mostly hydro. The state turned on its first offshore wind farm at the end of the year but has struggled to get other offshore wind projects off the ground. The state's ambitious climate law requires utilities to get 70 percent of the electricity they sell from renewable sources by 2030 and to shift entirely to carbon-free power a decade later.
New York tends to consume more electricity than it produces and currently imports power from neighboring states and Canada. (Electricity imports are not included on the chart above.)
Coal-fired power plants provided the majority of North Carolina's electricity generation during the 2000s, but 32 of the state's coal-burning units have been retired since 2010 and coal's share in the state electricity mix has dwindled. Natural gas, meanwhile, has surged to become North Carolina's top source of power, generating more than 40 percent of the state's electricity last year.
North Carolina also gets nearly a tenth of its power from solar. The state's unique implementation of a decades-old federal mandate, the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, helped encourage the development of utility-scale solar projects, but the growth of solar power has slowed in recent years.
In 2021, a bipartisan bill passed by state lawmakers required North Carolina's largest utility, Duke Energy, to achieve a 70 percent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from 2005 levels by the end of the decade. But this year, Duke Energy asked for more time to meet that deadline and for permission to build a fleet of new gas-burning power plants.
As in many Great Plains states, wind power has grown rapidly in North Dakota. Last year, wind turbines generated 36 percent of the state's electricity, more than twice as much as a decade before. But coal still dominates the state's electric mix.
North Dakota has both substantial coal reserves and abundant wind. The state produces significantly more electricity than is consumed within its borders and sends about two-thirds to neighboring states and Canada through high-voltage transmission lines. (Exports are not included on the chart above.)
Coal was Ohio's main source of power for much of the last two decades, but a boom in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, brought cheaper natural gas in the 2010s and utilities shut down several large coal plants. Gas took over as the state's top source of electricity in 2019 and now fuels nearly 60 percent of the state's power generation.
Ohio produces an additional 12 percent of its electricity from two nuclear plants along Lake Erie, which have also faced stiff cost competition from gas. In 2019, Ohio lawmakers passed a bill that gave the state's nuclear power plants more than $1 billion in subsidies to stay open, bailed out two coal plants and weakened the state's renewable electricity requirements. The nuclear subsidies were repealed in 2021 amid a major public corruption scandal, but other parts of the law have remained in place.
Ohio gets a small portion of its power from renewable sources today: About 2 percent from wind energy and 1 percent from solar. More than one-fourth of Ohio counties have banned or restricted the construction of new wind or solar projects since 2021 when another state law gave county officials decision-making power over where to locate renewable energy.
The majority of Oklahoma's power generation has historically come from fossil fuels, but wind power has surged in the state over the past decade. Coal was the state's top power producer in the 2000s, but natural gas began competing for the top slot in the late 2000s and early 2010s and coal power declined sharply over the next decade. Wind power has grown quickly in the meantime, briefly becoming the state's largest power producer in 2022 before dropping below gas again last year.
Oklahoma was the third-largest producer of wind power in the country last year, behind Texas and Iowa. The state generates more electricity than it consumes and sends its extra power to other states over the regional grid. (Exports are not included on the chart above.)
Most of the electricity produced in Oregon in any given year comes from hydroelectric dams, but the exact amount can fluctuate depending on precipitation. Power from natural gas typically increases during drought years and decreases in years with ample rain and snow.
Over the past decade, wind has grown to become the third-largest source of electricity generated in the state. In an effort to encourage more non-hydroelectric renewable power, Oregon requires its large, investor-owned utilities to get 50 percent of the electricity they sell to customers from new renewable energy sources by 2040. Other utilities are subject to lower standards.
In most years, Oregon exports some of its power to nearby states. (Exports are not included in the chart above.)
Coal was Pennsylvania's top source of electricity until 2014, but its role in the state's power mix has declined sharply since then as natural gas has surged.
Gas production from hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, unleashed a flood of cheap natural gas in Pennsylvania starting in the 2000s. As a result, electric utilities began closing down older coal plants in favor of newer gas-powered turbines.
Gas is now putting pressure on the state's nuclear plants, too. After one of the state's nuclear power plants, Three Mile Island, shut down in 2019, pro-nuclear groups sought state subsidies to keep the remaining reactors open, saying that the loss of this emissions-free electricity is bad news for the fight against climate change. Last year, nuclear energy fueled 32 percent of the state's power generation, while other carbon-free sources supplied less than 4 percent.
Pennsylvania is the country's third-largest producer of electricity, behind Texas and Florida, and the state is a major supplier of power to the rest of the Mid-Atlantic region. (Electricity exports are not shown on the chart above.)
Natural gas dominates electricity generation in Rhode Island, but solar energy has grown quickly in recent years. Solar supplied 12 percent of the state's electricity last year, up from less than 1 percent in 2017.
Rhode Island tightened its renewable energy standard in 2022 and now requires state electricity providers to get 100 percent of the power they sell to consumers from renewable sources by 2033. The state consumes more electricity than it generates and imports extra power through New England's regional grid. (Imports are not included on the chart above.)
The majority of the electricity generated in South Carolina has come from nuclear power for more than two decades. But generation from natural gas has more than doubled in the state over the past decade as coal power has declined. Gas overtook coal in 2018 as the state's second-largest power producer.
In 2017, utilities in South Carolina abandoned plans to build two new nuclear reactors after major delays and billion-dollar cost overruns. The state produced less than 8 percent of its power from renewable sources last year, mostly solar and hydro.
South Carolina produces more power than it consumes and sends the surplus to neighboring states. (Exports are not included on the chart above.)
Hydroelectric dams supplied the bulk of electricity generation in South Dakota for much of the past two decades, but coal surpassed hydro as the state's top power producer during three years - 2001, 2004 and 2008 - and, more recently, wind power has taken over.
Coal's share of the state generation mix has declined significantly since the 2010s. Wind, however, has surged. Wind energy has been South Dakota's top source of power since 2021, supplying more than half of the state's electricity generation last year.
South Dakota makes much more power today than it did two decades ago and exports electricity across the Central and Western United States. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
Coal was Tennessee's top source of electricity generation between 2001 and 2016, but its share of the state's power mix has declined significantly over the past decade. In 2016, a new nuclear reactor was finally completed in Tennessee after decades of delays. In 2017, coal-powered generation dipped below nuclear for the first time in nearly two decades. More recently, growing natural gas generation has vied with coal as the state's second-largest power producer.
Tennessee consumes more power than it produces and makes up the shortfall by importing electricity from nearby states. (Imports are not included on the chart above.)
Texas produces more electricity than any other state, by a wide margin, and its power mix has long been led by natural gas. Coal-fired generation in the state has declined over the past decade as wind power has increased. In 2020, wind surpassed coal to become the second-largest source of electricity generation in Texas.
The state is, by far, the country's largest producer of wind power today, with Iowa and Oklahoma in a distant second and third place. In recent years, solar power has also surged in the state, rising from 1 percent of the state's electric mix in 2019 to 6 percent last year.
Utilities and businesses in the state have largely turned to wind and solar power because they're so cheap to build, and not because of state mandates. However, the state has cleared many of the barriers to building new renewable projects and other energy infrastructure, creating "an environment where these things can thrive," Dr. Lott of Columbia University said.
But even as power generation from renewable sources soars, in absolute terms, Texas continues to burn more natural gas and more coal than any other state.
Unlike most other states, Texas operates its own power grid, which is only minimally connected to the country's other regional grids. That means Texas is largely dependent on its own resources to meet its electricity needs.
The majority of electricity produced in Utah still comes from coal, but coal's share of the state's power mix has declined over the last decade as natural gas and solar generation have increased.
Solar is the largest renewable source of power in the state, providing 14 percent of Utah's electricity generation last year. Utah has a goal for utilities to generate or procure 20 percent of the electricity they sell to customers from renewable sources by 2025.
The state produces more energy than it consumes and sends the surplus to nearby states, like California. (Exports are not included on the chart above.)
At least one Utah power plant is switching from burning coal to natural gas to comply with California's stricter environmental regulations. But Utah lawmakers are looking at ways to keep the coal power plant running alongside the new gas facility.
Most of the electricity generated in Vermont came from nuclear power until 2014, when the state's only nuclear plant, Vermont Yankee, closed down. Since then, virtually all of the electricity produced in the state has come from renewable sources, including hydropower, biomass, wind and solar.
But Vermont now generates much less electricity, in total, than it did before the nuclear plant shut down and has to import a substantial amount of power from other New England states and Canada to satisfy demand. (Imports are not shown on the chart above.)
Vermont recently strengthened its renewable energy standard to require that 100 percent of electricity sold in the state come from renewable sources by 2035.
Coal was the top source of electricity produced in Virginia between 2001 and 2008, but its share has declined since then. By 2015, natural gas had become the state's largest source of electricity, a result of the nationwide boom in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, which unleashed a wave of cheap, plentiful gas. Nuclear generation has provided a little more than one-third of Virginia's electricity, on average, over the past two decades.
In 2020, Virginia's Democratic-led Legislature passed a clean energy law that established new energy efficiency standards, set a schedule for closing old fossil fuel power plants and required the state's two biggest utilities get all of their electricity from carbon-free sources by 2050. But a new, Republican administration has pushed to revise that law and shift the state's focus toward an "all of the above" energy strategy that includes greater support for natural gas power.
The total amount of power produced in Virginia has been growing, but the state is also facing rising demand from power-hungry data centers. Dominion Energy, the state's largest electric utility, has proposed meeting that demand with a mix of new renewable power and gas generation in a plan that could increase the company's overall emissions.
Virginia currently consumes more electricity than it generates and gets additional power from two regional grids that serve the state. (Imports are not included on the chart above.)
Washington is the nation's largest producer of hydroelectric power, which has dominated the state's generation mix for more than two decades. The amount of power produced by hydro fluctuates from year to year with changes in precipitation, and other sources - including natural gas, nuclear, wind and coal - make up almost all of the rest.
Washington produces more electricity than it consumes and exports power to Canada and other Western states. (Exports are not shown on the chart above.)
In 2019, the state required its electric utilities to transition fully away from fossil fuels as a power source by 2045.
Coal still dominates West Virginia's power mix. It has supplied more than 85 percent of the electricity produced in the state every year for more than two decades. While natural gas and wind have increased their generation share over the past decade, they still account for a relatively small portion of the electricity produced in the state.
In 2015, West Virginia became the first state to repeal its renewable energy standard after years of lobbying by conservative groups. The law required utilities to get 25 percent of their electricity from alternative and renewable energy sources by 2025. Opponents of the standard said it was hurting coal jobs and raising electricity rates, while supporters said it would help to diversify the state's electric sector at a time when the national coal market was in decline.
The total amount of power generated by West Virginia has declined over the past two decades as coal power has been squeezed by competition from cheaper regional sources and older coal-fired power plants have retired. But the state still generates more electricity than it consumes and supplies a significant amount of power to other Mid-Atlantic States through the shared regional grid. (Exports are not pictured in the chart above.)
Coal was long Wisconsin's top source of electricity generation, but, after years of rapid growth, natural gas took over as the state's largest power producer in 2022. Wind and solar power have grown quickly in the state in recent years, but both sources remain relatively small players in Wisconsin's electricity mix.
In 2019, Gov. Tony Evers, a Democrat, set a goal for the state to shift to 100 percent carbon-free electricity by 2050 and created a new state office to lead the transition. But the proposal has faced opposition from the Republican-led Legislature.
Wisconsin uses more electricity than it generates in-state, so it imports additional power from the regional electric grid. (Imports are not shown on the chart above.)
The vast majority of electricity generated in Wyoming still comes from coal, but wind power has made inroads over the past decade. Last year, wind supplied more than a fifth of the electricity produced in the state.
Wyoming has been the country's top coal-producing state for decades and the state is also home to "some of the greatest wind resources in the nation," according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
Because of its small population, Wyoming produces much more power than it consumes and sends about 60 percent out of state. Several major transmission line projects are currently in development to move more of Wyoming's abundant wind power to other Western 
#40
For the first time since nations began meeting three decades ago to confront climate change, diplomats from nearly 200 countries approved a global pact that explicitly calls for "transitioning away from fossil fuels" like oil, gas and coal that are dangerously heating the planet.
The sweeping agreement, which comes during the hottest year in recorded history, was reached on Wednesday after two weeks of furious debate at the United Nations climate summit in Dubai. European leaders and many of the nations most vulnerable to climate-fueled disasters were urging language that called for a complete "phaseout" of fossil fuels. But that proposal faced intense pushback from major oil exporters like Saudi Arabia and Iraq, as well as fast-growing countries like India and Nigeria.
In the end, negotiators struck a compromise: The new deal calls on countries to accelerate a global shift away from fossil fuels this decade in a "just, orderly and equitable manner," and to quit adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere entirely by midcentury. It also calls on nations to triple the amount of renewable energy, like wind and solar power, installed around the world by 2030 and to slash emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas that is more potent than carbon dioxide in the short term.
While past U.N. climate deals have urged countries to reduce emissions, they have shied away from explicitly mentioning the words "fossil fuels," even though the burning of oil, gas and coal is the primary cause of global warming.
"Humanity has finally done what is long, long, long overdue," said Wopke Hoekstra, the European commissioner for climate action. "Thirty years - 30 years! - we spent to arrive at the beginning of the end of fossil fuels."
The new deal is not legally binding and can't, on its own, force any country to act. Yet many of the politicians, environmentalists and business leaders gathered in Dubai hoped it would send a message to investors and policymakers that the shift away from fossil fuels was unstoppable. Over the next two years, each nation is supposed to submit a detailed, formal plan for how it intends to curb greenhouse gas emissions through 2035. Wednesday's agreement is meant to guide those plans.
"This is not a transition that will happen from one day to the other," Susana Muhamad, Colombia's environmental minister, said this week. "Whole economies and societies are dependent on fossil fuels. Fossil capital will not disappear just because we made a decision here." But, she added, an agreement sends "a strong political message that this is the pathway."
The deal represents a diplomatic victory for the United Arab Emirates, the oil-rich nation that hosted these talks at a glittering, sprawling expo center in Dubai under smoggy skies just 11 miles away from the largest natural gas power plant in the world.
Sultan Al Jaber, the Emirati official and oil executive presiding over the talks, faced complaints about conflicts of interest and weathered early calls for his removal. A record number of fossil fuel lobbyists flooded the summit. Abu Dhabi National Oil Company, the company run by Mr. Al Jaber, is investing at least $150 billion over the next five years to increase drilling.
But Mr. Al Jaber has also called a phaseout of fossil fuels "inevitable" and staked his reputation on being able to persuade other oil-producing nations to sign on to a major new climate agreement.
"Through the night and the early hours of the morning we worked collectively for consensus," Mr. Al Jaber said on Wednesday morning before a room full of applauding negotiators. "I promised I would roll up my sleeves. We have the basis to make transformational change happen."
It remains to be seen if countries will follow through on the agreement. Scientists say that nations would need to slash their greenhouse gas emissions by roughly 43 percent this decade if they hope to limit total global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, or 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, compared to preindustrial levels. Beyond that level, scientists say, humans could struggle to adapt to rising seas, wildfires, extreme storms and drought.
Yet global fossil-fuel emissions soared to record highs this year, nations are currently on track to cut that pollution by less than 10 percent this decade and the world has already heated by more than 1.2 degrees Celsius. Many scientists say it is now highly unlikely that humanity can limit warming to 1.5 degrees, though they add that countries should still do everything they can to keep warming as low as possible.
Representatives from small islands, whose coasts are disappearing under rising seas and whose wells are filling with saltwater, said that the new climate agreement had a "litany of loopholes" and was not enough to avert catastrophe.
"This process has failed us," said Anne Rasmussen, the lead negotiator for Samoa, who complained that the deal had been approved while a group of 39 small island nations was not in the room. "The course correction that is needed has not been secured."
Past climate agreements have often failed to encourage meaningful action. In 2021, nations struck a deal in Glasgow to "phase down" coal-fired power plants. But Britain approved a new coal mine just one year later and global coal use has since soared to record highs.
Even as negotiators from the United States and Europe pressed forcefully for a deal to reduce fossil fuel use, environmentalists pointed out that oil production in the United States was surging, while European countries were spending billions on new terminals to import liquefied natural gas amid the war in Ukraine.
American officials talked up the fact that Congress had recently approved hundreds of billions of dollars to adopt and manufacture clean energy technologies like solar panels, electric vehicles and heat pumps that would help curb the world's appetite for oil, coal and natural gas.
As bleary-eyed diplomats in Dubai argued in all-night sessions over language in the text, they were forced to wrestle with the realities and stark challenges of a global transition away from fossil fuels in greater detail than ever before.
Saudi Arabia and oil and gas companies argued that the talks should focus on emissions, instead of fossil fuels themselves, saying that technologies such as carbon capture and storage could trap and bury greenhouse gases from oil and gas and allow their continued use. To date, nations have struggled to deploy that technology on a broad scale.
Other world leaders countered that the best way to cut emissions was to switch to cleaner forms of energy like solar, wind, or nuclear, reserving carbon capture for rare situations where alternatives are unavailable.
The final text calls on nations to accelerate carbon capture "particularly in hard-to-abate sectors." But some negotiators expressed concern that fossil-fuel companies could seize on that language to continue emitting at high rates while promising to capture the emissions later.
Some oil producers already see wiggle room in the deal. In a television interview after the summit, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, the Saudi energy minister, said that the agreement "buried the issue of immediately phasing out or phasing down" fossil fuels and instead "left space for countries to choose their own way." He also insisted that Saudi Arabia's oil exports would not be affected.
The final agreement also has language recognizing that so-called transitional fuels can play a role in the transition to clean energy and ensuring energy security. "Transitional fuels" is widely seen as code for natural gas, something that gas-producing countries like Russia and Iran had called for. Some nations seeking an end to fossil fuels lamented the inclusion of that language.

An earlier draft of the agreement had urged nations to stop issuing permits for new coal-fired power plants unless they could capture and bury their carbon dioxide emissions. But countries like China and India, which are still building large new coal plants to satisfy growing energy demand, opposed overly tight restrictions. The language on new coal plants was removed from the final version.
Many African countries sharply criticized the idea that all countries should reduce their fossil fuel use at the same pace. Without outside financial help, they argued, African nations would need to exploit their own oil and gas reserves in order to grow rich enough to fund the clean energy transition.
"Asking Nigeria, or indeed, asking Africa, to phase out fossil fuels is like asking us to stop breathing without life support," said Ishaq Salako, Nigeria's environmental minister. "It is not acceptable and it is not possible."
Some world leaders criticized wealthy emitters like the United States, Europe and Japan for failing to provide enough financial support to low-income countries to help them transition away from fossil fuels. In places like Africa, Latin America and Southeast Asia, developing nations are facing soaring interest rates that have made it difficult to finance new renewable energy projects.
The new agreement nods to the importance of finance, but countries agreed to tackle the issue at the next round of climate talks in Baku, Azerbaijan, next year.
"The text calls for a transition away from fossil fuels in this critical decade, but the transition is not funded or fair," said Mohamed Adow, director of Power Shift Africa, an environmental group. "We're still missing enough finance to help developing countries decarbonize and there needs to be greater expectation on rich fossil fuel producers to phase out first."
At the same time, war and turmoil elsewhere in the world cast a shadow over the climate talks, which were already marked by sharp disagreements between nations. By tradition, U.N. rules require every agreement at the climate summit to be unanimously endorsed, and any one country can scuttle a consensus.
For weeks, diplomats struggled to agree even on a location for next year's summit, because Russia kept vetoing Eastern European nations that had criticized the invasion of Ukraine. Developing countries in the conference halls were furious when the United States vetoed a U.N. resolution for a cease-fire in Gaza.
After the agreement was reached Wednesday, John Kerry, President Biden's climate envoy, said that it showed countries could still work together despite their sharp differences.
"In a world of Ukraine and Middle East war and all the other challenges of a planet that is foundering, this is a moment where multilateralism has come together and people have taken individual interests and attempted to define the common good," Mr. Kerry said. "That is hard, it's the hardest thing in diplomacy, it's the hardest thing in politics."
But there were still signs that bitterness and distrust lingered. "Developed countries say a great deal about ambition in tackling the climate crisis when standing before the media," said Diego Pacheco, the lead negotiator for Bolivia. "But in the negotiation rooms of this conference they are blocking and creating distortions and confusion and adding complexity to all the issues that are priorities for developing countries."
As workers dismantled the coffee stands at the Dubai climate conference to make way for "Winter City," a Santa-heavy extravaganza set to open at the venue on Friday, many were already eyeing the next big climate meetings. Governments still need to start taking concrete steps to increase funding for clean energy, including a major overhaul of the World Bank and other international financial institutions.
"Champions for a rapid phaseout of fossil fuels, both small island states and major economies, have pushed the rest of the world to realize this transition cannot be stopped," said Tom Evans, a climate policy adviser at E3G, a research organization. "But this is only a small first step."
#41
The global experiment in artificial intelligence is just beginning. But the spending frenzy by big tech companies for building and leasing of data centers, the engine rooms for A.I., is well underway. They poured an estimated $105 billion last year into these vast, power-hungry facilities.
That spending spree is increasing demand for electricity and raising environmental concerns. A recent headline in The New Yorker called the energy demands of A.I. "obscene." But there's another perspective on A.I. and the environment, focusing not on how the technology is made but on what it can do.
A.I. has the potential to help accelerate scientific discovery and innovation in one field after another, lifting efficiency and reducing planet-warming carbon emissions in sectors like transportation, agriculture and energy production.
Here's what to know.
What makes those data centers so power-hungry?
It's the rise of so-called generative artificial intelligence.
Generative A.I. can do a lot - not only analyze data and make predictions, but also write poetry and computer code, summarize books and answer questions, often with human-level proficiency. And that kind of computing needs a lot of energy. A query to ChatGPT requires nearly 10 times as much electricity as a regular Google search, according to a recent estimate.
Researchers had been working on generative A.I. for years, but it really burst onto the scene in November 2022 when OpenAI introduced ChatGPT, the conversational chatbot that became a sensation. Microsoft has invested more than $13 billion in OpenAI and is racing to include A.I. features in its products. So are Amazon, Google and Meta, the owner of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.
How much will electricity demand increase?
There are higher estimates, but experts generally forecast that energy consumption by data centers worldwide will at least double over the next few years. Goldman Sachs has estimated that electricity use by data centers will increase 160 percent by 2030. A recent forecast by the International Energy Agency projected that demand would more than double by 2026.
These predictions are all sizable increases, suggesting sharply higher greenhouse gas emissions from data centers if they obtain their power from fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. But keep in mind: The global electricity sector is huge and varied. Data centers account for about 1 percent to 2 percent of total electricity demand. That share, according to estimates, will increase to 3 percent to 4 percent by 2030.
What's the case for A.I. as a green technology?
Artificial intelligence is a general-purpose tool, experts say, that if used wisely across the economy could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 5 percent to 10 percent by 2030, according to a study by the Boston Consulting Group that was commissioned by Google.
A.I. could also radically transform the way we find metals that are critical not only to the tech industry but to the fight against climate change. In one case, it helped find a vast deposit of copper, a key component in electric vehicles, in Zambia.
And Zanskar, a start-up in Salt Lake City, is using A.I. to try to improve the success rate of discovering geothermal energy for power plants. About 90 percent of geothermal projects started from scratch fail mainly because they drill in the wrong places, said Carl Hoiland, a co-founder and the chief executive of Zanskar. But A.I., combined with new geologic data sets like satellite and seismic sensor data, could open the door to doubling or tripling the field's meager success rate.
In theory, that could make a big difference in the fight against global warming. Geothermal is a clean, round-the-clock energy source, but it currently accounts for less than half of 1 percent of the electric power in the United States.
The takeaway
Even though electricity demand from A.I. is expected to at least double in the coming years, the efficiency of the technology could increase at an even higher rate. There is a historical precedent.
Consider what happened with cloud computing. There was a surge in energy consumption in the early 2000s. And there were concerns that the increase would continue. But while the computing output of the world's data centers jumped sixfold from 2010 to 2018, energy consumption rose only 6 percent.
A similar trend, industry analysts say, may well emerge with A.I.
"After the mania has calmed down, other incentives kick in," said Jonathan Koomey, a former scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory who is now an independent researcher. "There is a huge incentive for the industry to become more efficient."
The big tech companies are working on ways to streamline their software, hardware and cooling systems to reduce electricity consumption in their data centers. They are locating computing facilities in northern countries, pulling in cold outdoor air as a coolant to reduce electricity and water use. And they are investing in alternative energy sources.
If those efforts are successful, and if we're smart about how we use A.I., it might eventually offer a lot of environmental bang for the buck.
#42
Heat pumps, which both warm and cool buildings and are powered by electricity, have been touted as the answer to curbing greenhouse gas emissions produced by homes, businesses and office buildings, which are responsible for about one-third of the emissions in New York State.
But how do they work? How much do they cost? Is New York ready for them? And can they really help solve the climate crisis? Here are some heat pump basics.
Why are heat pumps better for the environment?
Currently, we mostly burn fossil fuels to produce heat. This causes pollution. Heat pumps are all-electric.
Even though most electricity still comes from combustion, the United States is slowly transitioning to renewable power like hydro, wind and solar. As this shift occurs, heat pumps will help eliminate greenhouse gases.
How do they work?
A heat pump moves heat.
It consists of a boxy component outside and a sleek-looking blower inside. A thermostat controls the temperature. During warm weather, a pump works just like an air-conditioner by rerouting indoor heat outdoors.
When it's cold outside, the process is reversed: Heat from the chilly outdoor air is extracted and delivered indoors with the help of refrigerants and a compressor.
Will heat pumps overburden the electricity grid?
New York City's transition to renewable energy and electrification is happening gradually, involving many projects and moving parts. Con Edison is making investments in the grid to prepare it for an increase in demand, said Jen Hensley, a senior vice president at the company. But for the time being, the grid is ready for heat pumps, she added.
The devices are highly efficient, which should help limit the growing burden on the grid, said Rohit T. Aggarwala, the city's climate chief.
Miguel Modestino, the director of the sustainable engineering initiative at the Tandon School of Engineering at New York University, explained the pumps' efficiency: They move heat, they don't create it. Using the same amount of electricity, a heat pump can provide three to four times more warmth than a plug-in space heater.
Is there more than one kind of heat pump?
Yes. Air-source heat pumps are the most common. Geothermal pumps, another kind, take in heat from below the ground, where the temperature is more stable, Dr. Modestino said.
Geothermal systems, which tend to be more expensive to install, can provide energy for large buildings and even entire communities. But in New York City, where the real estate underground is jammed with pipes, cables and subway tunnels, geothermal pumps, with a few notable exceptions, can be difficult to install. So air-source pumps work better in the city.
Heat pump installations are on the rise in New York City, with Con Edison customers completing more than 30,000 of them since 2020. Credit...Jackie Molloy for The New York Times
What kinds of buildings can use the pumps?
Small buildings (one- to four-family homes and some businesses) are ideal.
New constructions are using larger-scale heat pumps, which can be placed on roofs or across entire floors, said Greg Elcock, vice president for energy efficiency at Con Ed.
It's the older, larger buildings that are the problem, he said. "We call them the hard-to-electrify stock."
Installing heat pump pipes across more than 12 stories of a building is still a major challenge, said Pallavi Mantha, an associate at Arup, a global sustainable-development company.
The large buildings are the worst polluters. How can they reach New York's climate goals?
City law states that properties larger than 25,000 square feet - of which there are about 50,000 - must curb their emissions by 40 percent by 2030.
A state program is helping several city properties, like the Empire State Building, develop heat recovery systems and partial electrification plans. But "there are still technical advances that are happening and we don't have all the answers yet," Ms. Mantha said.
Until then, buildings can take an incremental approach by replacing windows, improving insulation, and reducing consumption, Ms. Mantha said.
"If you do all this, it creates an enabling path for electrification," she said. "It's buying time until the technology and policy evolve."
Are people really buying heat pumps?
They are starting to. In New York City, Con Ed customers have completed more than 30,000 installations since 2020. And across the state, nearly 23,000 heat pump projects were installed in 2022, a threefold increase from the year before.
In the United States, shipments of heat pumps outpaced those of gas furnaces by over 15,000 units in January, according to the Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute, a trade association for manufacturers.
"I'm an evangelist," said James Rosenthal, who owns an apartment in a 29-unit co-op in Lower Manhattan. Although his building runs on gas, which he still uses for cooking and heating water, he converted his home to rely on heat pumps in 2022. Since then, he has convinced six other neighbors to do the same. Their units were installed either at the base of the building or on its roof.
Aren't they expensive?
Yes. Installing a heat pump in a single-family home can cost upward of $20,000.
There are financing options, however. Through 2032, a federal tax credit of up to $2,000 is available for installation, and New York State's Clean Heat program offers rebates through utility companies that can amount to between $8,000 and $12,000 in savings, according to a Con Ed spokesman. There is also financial assistance available specifically for low- and middle-income households. And Mr. Rosenthal said his electricity bills were about 30 percent less in the summer, spring and fall.
Later this year, the Inflation Reduction Act is expected to release more funding for New Yorkers, state officials said.
Is it a pain to install one?
Like any home project, the experience can vary. "It's major surgery," said Mr. Rosenthal, who compared the weekslong construction to a renovation. "It was surgical," said Robert Montalvo, a homeowner in the Bronx, whose pump system was installed in one day.
The level of disruption and duration of the project depends on the space and the piping work involved, said Victor Rodriguez, whose Brooklyn company, Ice Age Mechanical, installs heat pumps in small buildings and homes.
But the steps are always the same, he said, adding that sometimes the process can slow down if a building's electrical system needs to be upgraded.
"This is the new way forward," Mr. Rodriguez said. "We are kept pretty busy."
#43
In the race for the White House, former President Donald J. Trump has attacked President Biden's policies to expand renewable energy as a "plan to make China rich" because America's greatest economic rival also controls many of the parts needed for electric-vehicle batteries, solar panels and other green technology.
But eliminating Mr. Biden's climate policies would end up helping China, economists say, by jeopardizing hundreds of billions of dollars in manufacturing investments that have already been made in the United States and sending that work back to other countries, including China.
"If America chooses as a matter of political decision to go backward on the green transition, it won't stop the global process because that's already underway," said Stuart P.M. Mackintosh, an economist and author of the book "Climate Crisis Economics." "From a manufacturing perspective, you're just ensuring the Chinese edge in these technologies continues to get wider."
Mr. Trump, who has called climate change a "hoax," has targeted "every one" of Mr. Biden's policies designed to transition the United States away from fossil fuels. That includes regulations to encourage electric vehicles and solar and wind energy while cracking down on pollution from coal-burning power plants and restricting oil drilling on public lands and in federal waters. The former president has also promised to withdraw the United States from global agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Mr. Biden, who considers global warming an existential threat, helped Democrats in Congress to muscle through the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act. The law invests at least $370 billion in tax incentives for companies that build wind turbines, solar cells, transformers and batteries used in electric vehicles. It also provides tax credits to people who install solar panels or buy electric induction stoves, heat pumps and electric vehicles.
Last month, Mr. Trump told a crowd in Wisconsin that he would "terminate" what he referred to as "all new spending grants and giveaways under the Joe Biden mammoth socialist bills like the so-called Inflation Reduction Act."
Mr. Trump's spokeswoman, Karoline Leavitt, said in a statement that the Inflation Reduction Act "contributed to the worst inflation in generations."
But more than a dozen economists, energy experts and business leaders said weakening or repealing the Inflation Reduction Act could eviscerate American competitiveness in the rapidly growing global race to dominate clean energy. "It would be a blow to manufacturing," said Mark M. Zandi, the chief economist at Moody's Analytics. "China would certainly benefit."
Since the law took effect, manufacturers have announced $488 billion in private investments in the United States, according to figures released recently by American Clean Power, a renewable energy trade group that is tracking construction plans.
In the first quarter of 2024, clean-energy and transportation investment hit an all-time high, reaching $71 billion, according to data from the Clean Investment Monitor, a joint project of the Rhodium Group and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research.
Companies have announced plans to build or expand 164 manufacturing facilities throughout the United States, creating about 44,000 jobs to develop things like wind turbines, solar cells, transformers and lithium-iron phosphate batteries used in electric vehicles. About a third of the new manufacturing is either operating or under construction.
In addition to shifting the United States away from fossil fuels, the burning of which are dangerously heating the planet, the I.R.A. is industrial policy designed to return manufacturing to the country from overseas, particularly China, where green technology is heavily subsidized.
China produces about 80 percent of the world's solar panels (compared with about 2 percent in the United States) and makes more than half of the world's electric vehicles, wind turbines and lithium-ion batteries.
Those figures haven't shifted notably since the I.R.A. was signed into law. And Chinese Premier Li Qiang, the country's second-highest official after Xi Jinping, said in March that the country would accelerate the construction of solar panel farms as well as wind and hydroelectric projects.
But Biden administration officials said they believe that by pumping hundreds of billions of dollars into lowering domestic manufacturing costs, they are helping to bring investment home and grow jobs. "We're hearing from CEOs and investors that they're choosing to locate expansions in the U.S. as a result of the president's policies," said Ali Zaidi, Mr. Biden's national adviser on climate change.
It's hard to know whether the investments being made now in the United States would have gone to China or Europe without the tax credits provided by the climate law, economists say. But they agreed there is strong anecdotal evidence that companies are choosing the U.S. over foreign competitors. Notably, some of the biggest beneficiaries of the new investments are Republican-led states where elected leaders opposed the I.R.A.
"If you want to be a battery player in the Western Hemisphere, you have no choice but to be in the U.S. now," said Tom Jensen, the chief executive officer of Freyr Battery Inc., a Norwegian company building a factory in Georgia.
Freyr was planning a new factory in Norway when the I.R.A. took effect. The company quickly switched direction and opted to build its Giga America battery plant southwest of Atlanta, where it will earn between $500 million and $600 million annually in tax credits once the factory is online, a company spokeswoman said.
Electric-vehicle manufacturing has seen one of the biggest booms since the I.R.A. was signed into law. The law provides car buyers with a $7,500 rebate when they purchase a new electric vehicle, and $4,000 for a used one, as long as the automobile isn't made with Chinese materials.
Those rebates have become a particular target for Mr. Trump and Republicans. Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, and 18 other Republicans have introduced legislation to repeal the rebates.
"The electric vehicle tax credit benefits the wealthiest of Americans and costs hardworking American taxpayers billions of dollars," Mr. Barrasso said. "Repealing these tax credits keeps China out of our markets and lets Americans, not Washington, use their hard-earned money to purchase the vehicles that are best for them."
A number of Republicans also want to get rid of the tax credits for wind turbines, solar panels and electric vehicles in order to renew corporate tax cuts that expire next year. A repeal of the Inflation Reduction Act would require Republican majorities in both the House and the Senate.
Short of repeal, a Trump administration could use its executive authority to delay the implementation of certain parts of the law, or make it difficult for businesses and consumers to access the tax incentives and rebates.
Elaine Buckberg, the former chief economist for General Motors, said that even if Republicans target only the consumer rebate for electric vehicles - leaving untouched the manufacturing credit that companies receive - it would "absolutely" still hurt American competitiveness.
"Right now there's a real preference for putting your plant in the U.S. and meeting the criteria so your vehicles can be $7,500 less expensive," said Ms. Buckberg, currently a senior fellow at Harvard University's Salata Institute for Climate and Sustainability.
Without the I.R.A. and subsequent uptick in wind demand in the United States, G.E. Vernova would never have spent $50 million last year to hire 200 people at its plant in Schenectady, N.Y. and establish a new assembly line for its onshore wind business, said Roger Martella, the company's chief sustainability officer and head of government affairs. It has since completed the first 6.1 megawatt wind turbine, the largest ever manufactured in the United States.
"These tax credits are what drove the investment," Mr. Martella said. The company has invested nearly $100 million in turbine and grid-related manufacturing and repair capabilities in the United States since passage of the climate law, including the Schenectady plant, an onshore wind turbine factory in Pensacola, Fla.; and a grid factory expansion in Shreveport, La.
Mr. Martella, who was general counsel at the Environmental Protection Agency under President George W. Bush, said his company and likely others are preparing to make a case to Republicans that the law should be preserved because it's been good for job creation, energy security and competitiveness.
"We think these are priorities that are important to a President Trump," he said. "We're in the early days of a decade-long space race for who is going to lead the energy supply chain in manufacturing and innovation, and these policies have really put the U.S. in the lead."
Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, the former chief economist of the U.S. Department of Commerce, noted that companies are investing nearly six dollars for every dollar they reap in rebates. "We're not seeing the same sort of double digit growth in many of these sectors in other countries, frankly," said Ms. Hughes-Cromwick, now a senior fellow at Third Way, a center-left think tank.
Leaders of organizations that promote free markets were split over the effects of repealing the climate law.
Nick Loris, the vice president of public policy at C3 Solutions, a conservative-leaning energy group, said he believed subsidies should be reserved only for things like early-stage research and development of new technologies. He called the $488 billion that has poured into the United States from private companies a "mixed bag" and said he worries the tax credits have created a manufacturing bubble that might not be able to survive without subsidies.
Alex Flint, the executive director of the Alliance for Market Solutions, a conservative group that advocates for a carbon tax to fight climate change, also opposes subsidies. But the tax credits have created "the hope that we will catch up with China" in clean technologies and repealing them would make the United States seem unreliable, he said.
"Turning subsidies on and off diminishes their immediate value and discounts the value of any U.S. policies in the future," Mr. Flint said.
Both Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump are expected to try to outdo one another to appear tough on China on Thursday when they meet for the first presidential debate. Mr. Biden has increased some tariffs on steel and aluminum products from China and imposed a 100 percent tariff on Chinese electric vehicles, concerned that cheap imports from China could undermine American manufacturing. Mr. Trump has proposed charging a 60 percent tariff on all goods coming from China and a 100 percent tariff on cars made in Mexico by Chinese companies.
#44
Walking away from treaties. Redrawing the boundaries of national monuments. Repealing pollution regulations.
As Coral Davenport and Lisa Friedman reported, when Donald Trump returns to the White House next month, he is expected to unleash a series of executive actions and other moves that will radically overhaul America's approach to energy, the environment and climate.
Some of the moves have been well telegraphed. Trump intends to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord, as he did during his first term. He is also likely to open up lands in the Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante national monuments to drilling and mining. And he is planning to repeal parts of the Inflation Reduction Act that benefit electric vehicles.
Other potentially disruptive moves have been floated but not formalized. Trump is likely to hollow out the Environmental Protection Agency, possibly moving its headquarters out of Washington. The incoming administration is also expected to end the Biden administration's pause on issuing permits for new liquefied natural gas export terminals.
Trump is able to make all of these changes because, in a government designed to have checks and balances, modern-day presidents have an unusual amount of autonomy to shape climate and energy policy.
This is partly because it's been nearly 35 years since Congress has passed a substantial, comprehensive environmental law. While the Inflation Reduction Act, signed into law by President Biden in 2022, was the largest-ever federal law aimed at addressing climate change, it did not set any emissions standards or define a national strategy for addressing climate change.
Instead, the 1990 reauthorization of the Clean Air Act, a bipartisan effort signed into law by the first President George Bush, was the last time Congress established guidelines for any number of pollution regulations, leaving federal guidelines behind the times.
"That has created opportunities for presidents, especially when you have a shift in control of executive branch and a shift in parties, to make fairly substantial changes on the fly," said Barry Rabe, a professor of public policy at the University of Michigan who has studied executive actions and environmental issues.
During Trump's first term, he used executive actions to undo much of President Barack Obama's climate work. President Biden then followed suit, using executive actions to reinstate some Obama policies.
This tit-for-tat exchange has left the United States with a scattershot approach to climate policy during a decade when the effects of global warming have become increasingly clear.
"It is hard to build an enduring or durable set of policies through executive action," Rabe said. "But it is quite possible to reverse or delay actions taken by your immediate predecessor."
Whiplash
Beyond pulling out of the Paris accord and overhauling the E.P.A., there are other ways Trump could reshape climate policy that have received less attention.
He could withdraw the United States from a global pact to reduce methane emissions that the Biden administration helped establish in 2021. It's also possible that, if Trump makes good on his threats to impose tariffs on European goods, European countries could respond by using the bloc's nascent carbon pricing system to impose a tax on U.S. imports starting in 2026.
Taken together, the flurry of Trump moves will very likely bring about head-spinning changes. A federal government that, for the past four years has sought to promote clean energy, reduce emissions and gradually limit the expansion of fossil fuels will, starting next month, be doing precisely the opposite.Some of these moves may prove politically beneficially to Trump, who has pledged to halve energy costs within 18 months of taking office.
"Steps that could immediately keep prices of oil and gas and electricity as low as possible as soon as possible are certainly attractive politically," Rabe said.
It is also a fact that these actions will exert a steep toll on the environment. As Trump rolls back regulations and promotes fossil fuels, it is an inevitability that planet-warming emissions will rise, making the planet even hotter.
The new cabinet
Trump is setting the agenda, but he will be relying on a cabinet full of loyalists to execute many of his plans. Lee Zeldin, a former congressman, is set to lead the E.P.A.; Doug Burgum, the North Dakota governor who has close ties to the fossil fuel industry, is Trump's pick to lead the Interior Department; and Chris Wright, a fracking executive, is Trump's pick to lead the Energy Department.
These and other Trump nominees and appointees will be responsible for making good on the incoming president's promises to promote fossil fuels and walk back efforts to combat climate change.
They will also face pressure to deliver on Trump's campaign promise to halve energy costs. Presidents historically have limited sway over prices at the gas pump, and many experts say Trump's target is simply unattainable.
"That's going to be darn hard to deliver on, no matter how much additional production there is," Rabe said. "Pulling these levers - to actually get more production, to increase exports, to keep prices down - is going to be a huge challenge for the administration, regardless of what it does on the climate policy front."
What scientists learned from an extreme marine heat wave in California
They call it "the blob."
A decade ago, sea surface temperatures in the Pacific shot up to 11 degrees Fahrenheit hotter than normal. A high pressure system parked over the ocean, and winds that churn up cold, nutrient-rich water from the depths died down. Stagnant, warm water spread across the Northeast Pacific in a marine heat wave that lasted for three years.
Under the surface, the food web broke down and ecosystems convulsed. Seabirds washed up on shore. The carcasses were knee-deep in places, impossible to miss.
Researchers are still untangling the threads of what happened, and they caution against drawing universal conclusions from a single regional event. But the blob fundamentally changed many scientists' understanding of what climate change could do to life in the ocean. The disaster is one of our richest sources of information on what happens to marine life as the temperature rises. - Delger Erdenesanaa
#45
For pronghorn, those antelope-like creatures of the American West, this grassland north of Flagstaff is prime habitat. It gives the animals the food and conditions they need to survive fall and winter.
But for a nation racing to adopt renewable energy, the land is prime for something else: solar panels. The sun shines strong, the terrain is flat and high-voltage transmission lines are already in place from a decommissioned coal plant. Energy collected here could speed to major metropolitan regions across the West, part of a colossal wave of clean power needed to stave off the worst effects of global warming.
Animals need humans to solve climate change. But they also need places to live. Loss of habitat is the top driver of a staggering global decline in biodiversity, the variety of life on earth. The boom in solar, set to be the fastest-growing energy source in the United States, is predicted to fence off millions of acres across the nation, blanketing them in rows of glassy squares.
The good news for wildlife is that there are ways for solar developers to make installations less harmful and even beneficial for many species, like fences that let some animals pass, wildlife corridors, native plants that nurture pollinators, and more.
But at this pivotal moment, as solar farms sprout across the country, those measures often go unused. Among the reasons: a patchwork of local and state regulations governing large-scale solar, not enough research on how animals interact with it, and an absence of federal guidelines on siting or design.
"We're faced with two truths: We have a climate change crisis, but we also have a biodiversity crisis," said Meaghan Gade, a program manager at the Association of Fish & Wildlife Agencies. "We have to be mindful that there's wildlife that are dependent on these habitats, and we have to be smart and thoughtful about how we're doing this deployment so that we can hold both of those crises at the same time."
Eighty percent of states rely on voluntary approaches to minimize impacts to species and habitat, according to the association. As developers race ahead, the decisions they make today will reverberate for decades.
On the grassland north of Flagstaff, a ranching family, solar developers and state wildlife biologists have come together to try out solutions on the fly. One sunny day last fall, a helicopter descended over a herd of pronghorn streaking across shrubby grasslands near the site of a planned solar farm.
Pronghorn are exceptional for their combination of speed and endurance. If there was a global mammal marathon, a pronghorn would probably win.
Even though they look like antelopes, they're more closely related to giraffes. While Arizona's pronghorn population is stable, it's a small fraction of the species' historic numbers.
A net shot from the helicopter, a buck fell and a wrangler jumped out. He tied the buck's feet and a biologist blindfolded the heaving animal, hoping to calm him. Monitoring his temperature for signs of dangerous distress, they worked quickly to attach a tag to his ear and a GPS collar around his neck.
The collar will track how he responds to the solar farm, which will be broken up into sections. Fifteen corridors ranging from a quarter-mile to more than a half-mile will offer habitat and passage for pronghorn, mule deer and elk.
A moment later the pronghorn galloped away, an unknowing participant in an experiment in coexistence.
On the surface, the most wildlife-friendly practice might seem obvious.
"If you start with a site that has really no conservation value - it's cleared, it's degraded, whatever - then everything you do at that point is a win," said Liz Kalies, an ecologist who studies clean energy for the Nature Conservancy and works in North Carolina, where forests have been felled to make way for solar.
Pollinators like bees, for example, can benefit from solar facilities that replace crops treated with pesticides, especially when the new installations include native species (nearby crops can benefit, too). In Kentucky, a solar farm is going up at the site of a former coal mine.
But for developers, it's not so easy. Getting permits and financing for work on former industrial sites can be tricky because of risks like leftover toxic waste. Rural communities sometimes oppose the conversion of agricultural areas to solar, arguing that arable land should be protected for food security and to maintain the economic health of farming towns.
And critically, developers need to be able to move the electricity, which makes the availability of transmission infrastructure paramount to any site.
"While it would be nice to think that there's all of these low-conflict areas that developers could just go build on and everybody would leave them alone, in reality that's not how things work," said Tom Vinson, vice president of policy and regulatory affairs at the American Clean Power Association, which represents utility-scale solar developers. "There's always competing interests out there."
Potential solar sites are so ecologically varied that federal guidelines on wildlife and habitat wouldn't be appropriate, he said. And solar developers already take precautions for animals and plants that are protected under the Endangered Species Act, the intensive care unit for wildlife.
Oil and natural gas reduce habitat and can cause pollution, including catastrophic spills. They also drive climate change, which is expected to replace habitat loss as the leading threat to the world's biodiversity in future decades.
Wind turbines come with bird and bat collisions, though many of those deaths can be minimized, and the infrastructure doesn't take up much space. Anecdotes abound of elk and pronghorn strolling around turbines or napping in their shade.
Solar farms need a lot more land per unit of energy. While they're projected to take up a tiny fraction of the area dedicated to agriculture, they come on top of that, and on top of land occupied by cities, towns, roads and all kinds of industries.
Up to a third of potential solar development in the United States could overlap with areas that have high value for wildlife movement, according to one study, as animals move to adapt to climate change. (Rooftop and other small-scale solar can go a long way to taking pressure off big installations, but U.S. energy demand would still require a surge in large-scale projects.)
One way to reduce solar's damage is wildlife-friendly fencing.
National electricity codes require fencing to protect people from electrical hazards and infrastructure from damage. Simply replacing the conventional chain-link version with fencing that has wider gaps will let creatures like foxes scamper through. Raising the bottom of a fence off the ground, to offer a few inches of passage, accomplishes the same thing.
In Florida, a combination of four- and six-foot fencing allows panthers and deer to jump into many of Florida Power and Light's solar facilities, said Jack Eble, a company spokesman. Wooden supports that shore up fences let medium-sized animals crawl over, and larger openings at the bottom give access to small animals.
"We have not experienced any issues with wildlife damaging solar panels or other solar-related infrastructure to date," Mr. Eble said.
Fencing that's raised slightly off the ground allows animals, in this case a coyote in North Carolina, to pass through.
 
But so far, wildlife friendly fencing is not commonly used, according to Josh Ennen, a senior scientist at the Renewable Energy Wildlife Institute, a nonprofit collaboration that seeks to find solutions to wildlife conflicts and is mostly funded by industry.
Developers are often unfamiliar with the options for wildlife-friendly fencing, and it may not be easily available. Furthermore, many worry it will backfire if federally protected animals use the permeable fencing to wander onto the site. Suddenly, developers would have to worry about fines for driving over, say, a baby desert tortoise.
Regulations can get in the way, too. Around the country, solar facilities are subject to a disparate patchwork of local and state rules, some of which require specific kinds of fencing.
These challenges need to be solved quickly, biologists and wildlife advocates say.
"It's not something we can easily retrofit," Dr. Kalies said. "Developers don't want to tear down a fence once it's up."
A Trade-Off for the Future
At Babbitt Ranches, the solar farm's fencing will be raised off the ground for smaller animals like rabbits. Pronghorn, mule deer and elk will be kept out because of the developer's concerns that they could damage equipment or hurt themselves. For those animals, they're planning the corridors.
Long known for Hereford cattle and quarter horses, Babbitt Ranches stretches over 700,000 acres of private and leased public land. Transmission lines have drawn a crowd of clean energy developers, and the first wind turbines have already gone up.
Clenera, a solar developer, approached the ranch in 2018. For Babbitt's president, Bill Cordasco, the idea of a large solar project was appealing both financially and morally. It would bring in revenue for the family business while helping reduce climate risks for future generations. But he knew the pronghorn relied on that land. Mr. Cordasco wanted to find a solution that would meet everyone's needs, including the pronghorn.
"If you guys aren't interested in working through this pronghorn deal, it ain't going to happen," he recalled telling Clenera during their first in-person meeting.
Clenera was interested.
State wildlife officials already had data from earlier GPS collaring, so they knew how pronghorn and mule deer moved through the area. A renewable energy ordinance passed by Coconino County gave additional teeth to the importance of maintaining wildlife linkages in solar facilities.
A back-and-forth over the site design led to adding migration corridors and closing off some dead-end areas where animals could have gotten trapped or disoriented. Developers and wildlife officials discussed the pros and cons of quarter-mile versus half-mile corridors. (Would the smaller ones be wide enough for the animals to use? Would the larger be worth a significant increase in the overall footprint?) In the end, everyone agreed on the range of different corridors, creating a kind of natural experiment.
The miles of additional high-voltage cable and the extra fencing required to break big sections of solar panels into smaller ones make the project more expensive, Clenera officials said, though they declined to say how much. Mr. Cordasco also asked them to help fund long-term studies on the impact of the solar farm on wildlife migration.
"It's a lot of money," said Tom Fitzgerald, vice president of development at Clenera. "That's also the cost of getting all of the stakeholders to get behind you and to support your project, and to pay to be a contributing member of any community."
Jeff Gagnon, a biologist with the Arizona Game and Fish Department who oversaw the collaring effort, was thrilled to have his agency's advice taken seriously. He focuses on habitat connectivity, and while dozens of solar projects have come to his agency for review, he said, developers often disregard or minimize their recommendations.
"They can take it or leave it," he said.
This time, he pointed out, Mr. Cordasco made sure things went differently.
Mr. Cordasco knows the pronghorn he loves could be negatively affected, but he believes the damage will be minimized and the trade-off will be worth it for generations of people and wildlife to come.
"When you make these bigger decisions," Mr. Cordasco said, "you have to have a very long-term view." 
#46
resident-elect Donald J. Trump has tapped Chris Wright, chief executive of Liberty Energy, a fracking company based in Denver, as his choice for secretary of energy.
Mr. Wright, who calls himself "a tech nerd turned entrepreneur," is a media-friendly evangelist for fossil fuels who promotes a feel-good message that oil and gas can lift people out of poverty, while disparaging climate science.
In a video posted on LinkedIn last year, Mr. Wright declared, "There is no climate crisis, and we're not in the midst of an energy transition either."
Mr. Wright, who has no government experience, caught the attention of Mr. Trump in part through his appearances on Fox News. He also appears frequently on podcasts and social media videos, often using language and imagery associated with progressive causes to link oil and gas with issues like the fight for women's equality.
Mr. Trump announced Mr. Wright's appointment in a statement and praised him as a "leading technologist and entrepreneur in energy." He said in addition to leading the Energy Department, Mr. Wright would also be a member of the newly formed council of national energy.
"He has worked in nuclear, solar, geothermal, and oil and gas," Mr. Trump wrote, referring to Mr. Wright. "Most significantly, Chris was one of the pioneers who helped launch the American shale revolution that fueled American energy independence, and transformed the global energy markets and geopolitics."
Mr. Wright is close to Harold G. Hamm, the billionaire founder of Continental Resources who donated nearly $5 million to Mr. Trump since 2023 and is playing a role in the transition.
Mr. Wright was a director of the Domestic Energy Producers Alliance, a lobbying group that Mr. Hamm founded. The Wall Street Journal described the alliance as a "counterweight" to larger oil industry groups that recognize that climate change is caused by human activity and support some action to address it.
Mr. Hamm told Hart Energy, an online publication, that Mr. Wright was his top choice to lead the Energy Department.
In August, Mr. Wright's wife, Liz Wright, co-hosted a fund-raiser in Montana for Mr. Trump. Campaign finance records show that Chris Wright and Liz Wright donated $175,000 apiece to Mr. Trump's joint fund-raising campaign committee, called Trump 47.
The core mission of the Energy Department is ensuring the safety of the country's nuclear arsenal. But under President Biden, the agency has also played a large role in leading the energy transition away from fossil fuels and toward wind, solar, nuclear and other forms of noncarbon energy.
As one of his first tasks, Mr. Wright is expected to end a Biden administration pause on new liquefied natural gas export terminals. A judge blocked the pause and the Biden administration did approve at least one export permit, but Republicans and the oil and gas industry have accused the administration of deliberately stalling new approvals.
"We look forward to working with him once confirmed to bolster American geopolitical strength by lifting D.O.E.'s pause on L.N.G. permits and ensuring the open access of American energy for our allies around the world," said Mike Sommers, the president of the American Petroleum Institute, which represents oil companies, in a statement.
Climate activists criticized the selection of a fossil fuel executive at a time when they say the country needs to invest more heavily in clean energy.
"Like his new boss, Donald Trump, Wright denies the threat of the scientifically proven climate crisis," said Lori Lodes, the executive director of Climate Power, an environmental nonprofit group. She noted that renewable energy was cheaper to produce than fossil fuels, in part because of the Inflation Reduction Act, a 2022 law pumping hundreds of billions of dollars into wind, solar and other clean energy. Mr. Trump wants Congress to repeal it.
"No matter who they voted for, Americans want cheaper, cleaner energy options," Ms. Lodes said.
Earlier this week Mr. Trump named Gov. Doug Burgum of North Dakota to lead the Interior Department and chair the new national energy council. Mr. Trump said the team "will drive U.S. energy dominance, which will drive down inflation, win the A.I. arms race with China (and others) and expand American diplomatic power to end wars all across the world."
The image of Mr. Wright, who often appears in videos wearing button-down shirts, designer sneakers and no jacket or tie, runs counter to the stereotype of the conservative oil executive.
Yet Mr. Wright's underlying message lines up almost exactly with Mr. Trump's: fossil fuels are the critical to growing the economy and climate change is a hoax - or at least, fears of it are overblown.
The president-elect has pledged to "drill, baby drill," called climate change a scam and promised to erase regulations designed to curb the fossil fuel pollution that is dangerously heating the planet.
Mr. Wright's rhetoric is less provocative but essentially conveys the same ideas.
On an episode of the podcast "Flipping the Barrel," Mr. Wright suggested that oil and gas could liberate poor, rural women in developing economies from having to spend hours gathering fuel, including dung, for cookstoves.
"I've been to 55 countries," he said. "Low income, poor rural areas and traditional societies. Those humans have the same hearts and dreams, want to take care of their kids."
"A third of humanity doesn't have access to modern energy, and what's the biggest impediment to that last third of humanity getting energy right now?" he said. "An irrational and way exaggerated fear of climate change."
At the United Nations climate summit currently taking place in Baku, Azerbaijan, the main topic is how to help developing nations invest in solar, wind and other clean energy and avoid a reliance on fossil fuels.
Scientists have said that the United States and other major economies must stop developing new oil and gas projects to avert the most catastrophic effects of global warming. The burning of oil, gas and coal is the main driver of climate change.
The current year is shaping up to be the hottest on record, and researchers say the world is on track for dangerous levels of warming this century. Extreme weather linked to climate change is no longer a distant threat; heat waves, floods, drought and hurricanes have caused death and destruction across the globe this year.
People familiar with the thinking of Mr. Trump's transition team said that among Mr. Wright's appealing qualities was his oft-told "conversion" story about how he grew up believing that consuming too much oil and gas could be dangerous to humanity - and then later discovered the virtues of abundant oil and gas.
In the podcast, he described being told by a physics professor in high school that oil and gas were running out. Later, however, as an engineering student in graduate school, he learned about hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the technology of injecting water, chemicals and sand at high pressure into rock to release oil and gas inaccessible through conventional drilling. Over the past decade, fracking has created an American oil and gas boom. Environmentalists worry that fracking can contaminate groundwater.
"There's a whole lot more oil and gas underground than I certainly thought there was," said Mr. Wright.
Mr. Wright, who studied engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, founded Pinnacle Technologies in 1992, a company focused on providing shale gas extraction services. From 2000 to 2006 he was chairman of Stroud Energy, an early shale gas producer, according to his website. And in 2011, he founded Liberty Energy, a $2.8 billion company that provides fracking equipment and services.
#47
And on the other side of this vast, landlocked Central Asian nation, the same company's owners, Emirati fossil-fuel investors, are pouring billions of dollars into a gas plant expansion.
The Emirates, made wealthy by decades of oil exports, wants to be seen as a climate-friendly renewable energy superpower, even as it helps lock developing nations around the world into decades more fossil fuel use.
He founded the renewable energy company, Masdar, which has invested billions of dollars in zero-emissions energy technologies like wind and solar power across 40 countries. Simultaneously, he directs Adnoc, the national oil company, a behemoth that makes Masdar look minuscule. Adnoc pumps millions of barrels of oil per day and aims to spend $150 billion over the next five years, mostly to ramp up its output.
And this year, the United Nations has in effect vested Mr. al Jaber with one of humanity's most pressing tasks: steering its annual global climate negotiations, which are set to begin in November in Dubai.
Those increasingly urgent talks are the world's main forum to address how to limit global warming. The scientific consensus, that preventing runaway climate change must be done largely by bring a rapid end to the fossil fuel era, has made the decision to have Mr. al-Jaber preside over the summit intensely controversial.
In an interview, Mr. al Jaber, 49, said he was the perfect fit for the job.
Over six months of preparation for the summit, known as COP28, Mr. al Jaber said, he has consulted everyone from academicians to financiers to Indigenous leaders to fellow oil executives to understand why past summits have yielded such little progress.
His conclusion was that the fossil fuel industry had little to do with it.
"That was not one of the findings," he said. Instead, he said, progress was stymied because climate advocates and fossil fuel interests vilified each other. "Why are we fighting industries? Fighting emissions should focus on reducing emissions across the board, whether it's oil and gas, whether it's industry, regardless of what it is."

Advocates for bold climate action have been outraged by his approach, which rests on bringing fossil fuel companies to the table, and which he claims will break that cycle of recrimination. A group of 133 U.S. Senators and European Union lawmakers signed a letter this year calling for him to be replaced.
Multinational fossil fuel companies have a well-documented track record of countering climate science through misinformation and lobbying campaigns, even as now-public internal documents have revealed they were well aware of the effects of their products on the atmosphere.
A substation at a Masdar solar installation in Uzbekistan that was built in 2021.

At last year's COP summit, Saudi Arabia, China, Russia and other fossil fuel producing nations blocked language in a final resolution that would have set a timeline for phasing out oil and gas, scuttling an outcome favored by most of the world's countries. Mr. al-Jaber will be responsible for building a new consensus this year.
Negotiations at recent United Nations climate summits have faltered because countries struggle to agree on how quickly the world can move away from burning fossil fuels, which produce emissions that are warming the planet and making it increasingly dangerous for human habitation. Rich countries have produced the vast majority of greenhouse gas emissions since the beginning of the industrial age.
Mr. al Jaber points to the Emirates as a model for speeding up the change. The Emirates' leaders, he says, "saw the future that the world was heading toward and wanted to get ahead of it."
In other words, they predicted the energy transition (fossil fuels are finite, after all) and wanted to make sure they remained an energy powerhouse.
Masdar, which the Emirates' crown prince helped Mr. al Jaber found in 2006, is now partly owned by Adnoc, as well as by TAQA, the Emirates' national gas company, and Mubadala, its biggest state-run investment firm. Mr. al Jaber said that Masdar would receive investments of around $35 billion over the next five years, less than a quarter of Adnoc's $150 billion spending target.
Uzbekistan's population and energy needs are growing rapidly.
In Uzbekistan, TAQA and Mubadala are building two new gas facilities. Other countries in the region are also getting Emirati help to expand fossil fuel energy infrastructure: In Azerbaijan, a recent Adnoc investment in an offshore oil field overshadowed Masdar's expansion in renewable energy there.
"There is a large consensus that investing billions into new oil and gas projects flies in the face of clear warnings we've been getting from the scientific community for many years," said Scott Zimmerman, who manages a database of oil and gas projects at Global Energy Monitor, a research organization.
The Emirates is not the only country where companies are announcing new fossil fuel projects. But while investments worldwide in solar energy, for instance, have already surpassed those in oil, the Emirates is still a major exporter of fossil fuel projects.
Adnoc's projected growth will lead to more than 2.7 gigatons of carbon dioxide emissions through their production and burning, according to a 2022 report from Oil Change International. That is more than a year of combined emissions from Germany and Japan, and is second only to Qatar's national energy company, which is building the world's largest gas facility.
Mr. al Jaber said that he foresees Adnoc's fossil fuel production expanding "as long as the market demands it," but that the effects on the globe can be blunted with new technologies that one day may allow them to minimize emissions stemming from the production of oil and gas. That argument for abatement echoes that of world's largest fossil fuel producers, including Adnoc, which are investing huge sums of money into carbon capture.
#48
When oil and gas companies made ambitious commitments four years ago to curb emissions and transition to renewable energy, their businesses were in free fall.
Demand for the fuels was drying up as the pandemic took hold. Prices plunged. And large Western oil companies were hemorrhaging money, with losses topping $100 billion, according to the energy consulting firm Wood Mackenzie.
Renewable energy, it seemed to many companies and investors at the time, was not just cleaner - it was a better business than oil and gas.
"Investors were focused on what I would say was the prevailing narrative around it's all moving to wind and solar," Darren Woods, Exxon Mobil's chief executive, said in an interview with The New York Times last week at a United Nations climate conference in Baku, Azerbaijan. "I had a lot of pressure to get into the wind and solar business," he added.
Mr. Woods resisted, reasoning that Exxon did not have expertise in those areas. Instead, the company invested in areas like hydrogen and lithium extraction that are more akin to its traditional business.
Wall Street has rewarded the company for those bets. The company's stock price has climbed more than 70 percent since the end of 2019, lifting its market valuation to a record of nearly $560 billion in October, though it has since fallen to about $524 billion.
The American oil giant's performance stands in contrast with BP and Shell, oil and gas companies based in London that embraced wind, solar and other technologies like electric-vehicle charging. BP's stock has fallen around 19 percent in that time, based on trading in London, while Shell's has climbed about 15 percent.
The market's renewed acceptance of fossil fuels underscores one of the core challenges of curbing global emissions: Climate change poses risks that compound over decades. Scientists say every fraction of a degree of warming caused by fossil fuels brings greater risks from deadly heat waves, wildfires, drought, storms and species extinction. But investors are focused on making money over months and years.
"If we want to combat climate change, we need to make it in the firms' and consumers' self-interest to produce and buy the low-carbon alternatives," said Christopher Knittel, a professor of energy economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The election of Donald J. Trump, who has falsely described global warming as a hoax, has led to even greater optimism about the oil and gas business.
The difference in profits that companies can make from extracting oil and gas and what they can earn from harnessing wind and solar had already swung sharply in favor of fossil fuels in recent years.
The median return on capital among some of the world's biggest investor-owned oil companies, a key measure of profitability, topped 11 percent last year, up from negative 8 percent in 2020, according to an analysis by S&P Global Commodity Insights. The median return over that same period for the top renewable energy companies has stayed around 2 percent.
Where the Money Is for Energy Companies
Investors pushed oil and gas companies toward renewable energy around the pandemic. But Wall Street changed its tune when oil and gas profits rebounded.
Median return on invested capital by year for:
Notes: The group of renewables developers and owners only includes those valued above $1 billion. The group of oil and gas producers includes seven integrated, investor-owned companies. 
"If you look at the relative shareholder returns, the market's been sending a very clear signal that it wants energy companies to focus on their core competencies," said Mark Viviano, a managing partner at Kimmeridge, an energy investment firm based in Denver and New York. "That doesn't mean abandoning the energy transition, but it just means being more pragmatic about it."
BP pledged in 2020 to cut its oil and gas production 40 percent by the end of the decade. Less than three years later, it backtracked and said it would increase spending on fossil fuels. The company wrote off $1.1 billion in offshore wind investments last year and recently said it wanted to sell other wind assets, though it continues to invest in renewable energy.
"We will be very, very returns-focused, making sure that the new businesses compete on a competitive level with the historic businesses for scarce capital," the company's chief executive, Murray Auchincloss, told financial analysts on a recent conference call.
Shell has softened or discarded some of its emissions-reduction targets, as it scaled back growth expectations for its renewable power business.
"We do not see ourselves as being advantaged in renewable generation to create material returns over others," Wael Sawan, Shell's chief executive, told analysts recently. "And so you do see us stepping back."
In the United States, where environmentally conscious investing has become increasingly politicized, investors have gone from regularly quizzing oil and gas executives about their energy transition plans to zeroing in on projects that are more likely to lift the bottom line soon, executives said.
"Some people jumped the gun and moved toward some paths that ultimately turned out to be, I'd say, devastating to their bottom line," Toby Rice, the chief executive of a Pittsburgh natural gas producer, EQT, said in an interview. "They've now come back to center."
That said, the oil and gas business is subject to wild price swings that can quickly make fortunes and dash them just as rapidly. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, investors turned away from domestic producers after sustaining bruising losses as the companies chased production growth. Renewable energy tends to be a far steadier business.
Investors still widely expect oil and gas companies to curb their emissions by, among other things, plugging leaks of methane, a potent greenhouse gas. And around the world, nearly twice as much money is being invested in clean energy as in fossil fuels, according to the International Energy Agency, a Paris-based organization whose members include the United States and other industrialized countries.
"The end goal here I think is still widely endorsed," said Dan Pickering, chief investment officer at Pickering Energy Partners, an investment firm based in Houston. "We're oscillating around an upward slope."
Next year may pose a test for oil companies and their shareholders.
U.S. crude prices have slipped below $70 a barrel, from around $78 last year, squeezing corporate profits. Next year, global production is likely to be more than one million barrels a day higher than demand, the I.E.A. said last week.
"Let's see how these companies do if the price of oil goes back down," said Amy Myers Jaffe, director of the Energy, Climate Justice and Sustainability Lab at New York University.
#49
Big tech companies across the United States are struggling to find enough clean energy to power all the data centers they plan to build.
Now, some firms are betting on a novel solution: harvesting the heat deep beneath the Earth's surface to create emissions-free electricity, using drilling techniques from the oil and gas fracking boom.
On Monday, Meta, the company that owns Facebook, announced an agreement with a start-up called Sage Geosystems to develop up to 150 megawatts of an advanced type of geothermal energy that would help power the tech giant's expanding array of data centers. That is roughly enough electricity to power 70,000 homes.
Sage will use fracking techniques similar to those that have helped extract vast amounts of oil and gas from shale rock. But rather than drill for fossil fuels, Sage plans to create fractures thousands of feet beneath the surface and pump water into them. The heat and pressure underground should heat the water to the point where it can be used to generate electricity in a turbine, all without the greenhouse gases that are causing global warming.
"It's basically the same fracking technology," said Cindy Taff, an oil industry veteran who worked at Shell for 36 years before becoming Sage's chief executive. "The difference is that we're going after clean heat instead of hydrocarbons" such as oil and gas.
Sage has already drilled a test well in South Texas to demonstrate its approach. The startup now aims to build its first large-scale power plant at a yet-to-be-determined location east of the Rocky Mountains, with the first phase coming online by 2027.
The deal is the latest sign of growing excitement for new types of geothermal power that could provide enormous amounts of emissions-free electricity around the clock and complement more variable sources like wind and solar power.
Google has partnered with Fervo Energy, a prominent geothermal start-up, to build a 5-megawatt pilot plant in Nevada that has already begun supplying power to the grid. The two companies recently reached a deal to supply much more geothermal power in the years ahead to Google's data centers.
Fervo is also building a 400-megawatt plant in Utah that will sell electricity to utilities in Southern California and is expected to come online starting in 2026.

Tech firms are facing an urgent need for more electricity, as growing interest in artificial intelligence has triggered a data center boom. By one estimate, data centers could consume 9 percent of U.S. electricity by 2030, up from 4 percent today.
Data centers typically need power 24 hours a day, which wind turbines and solar panels alone can't provide. At the same time, many technology companies have promised to reduce their planet-warming emissions and face pressure not to rely on fossil fuels like coal or gas. So they are exploring technologies that can run around the clock, like nuclear power or enhanced geothermal.
"We're going to need every tool in the arsenal," said Michelle Solomon, a senior policy analyst at Energy Innovation, a nonprofit organization. "In the near term, enhanced geothermal might play a relatively small role, but I feel very optimistic about where the technology is going."
Geothermal power has been around for decades. But traditionally, geothermal plants were limited to places where companies could easily tap underground hot water reservoirs close to the surface. Only a few locations have the right geology for this, such as parts of California or Iceland, which is why geothermal currently provides just 0.4 percent of America's electricity.
But everywhere on Earth contains enormous amounts of underground heat if one can drill down far enough, and dozens of startups are exploring techniques to unlock that heat in new locations. Although it can be expensive to drill thousands of feet deep into hot, dry rock, those costs are falling as companies gain experience. In February, Fervo said it had already reduced drilling times by up to 70 percent in just one year.
"We're already way ahead of where people expected us to be, and we're expecting more dramatic cost reductions in the future," said Tim Latimer, Fervo's chief executive.
The Energy Department estimates that geothermal could provide 90,000 megawatts of U.S. electric capacity by 2050 if technologies keep improving, a twentyfold increase from today.
"Geothermal has such enormous potential," Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said in March.
Still, next-generation geothermal gets significantly less federal funding than other technologies like hydrogen fuels or nuclear power, in part because it has only recently emerged as a promising energy source. That means support from climate-conscious tech companies could be crucial as geothermal start-ups navigate the risks of getting early projects built.
Urvi Parekh, head of renewable energy at Meta, said the company wanted to signal ahead of time that it intended to buy electricity from Sage so that the start-up could raise funding and begin lining up equipment. "There's a tremendous value to us making that commitment today," Ms. Parekh said. "That way they can take the steps necessary to get that project that we want to see on the electricity grids."
#50
The sites fight climate change and can help with another global crisis: the collapse of nature. But so far, efforts to nurture wildlife habitat have been spotty.
It's not your average solar farm.
The glassy panels stand in a meadow. Wildflowers sway in the breeze, bursts of purple, pink, yellow, orange and white among native grasses. A monarch butterfly flits from one blossom to the next. Dragonflies zip, bees hum and goldfinches trill.
As solar projects unfurl across the United States, sites like this one in Ramsey, Minn., stand out because they offer a way to fight climate change while also tackling another ecological crisis: a global biodiversity collapse, driven in large part by habitat loss.
The sun's clean energy is a powerful weapon in the battle against climate change. But the sites that capture that energy take up land that wildlife needs to survive and thrive. Solar farms could blanket millions of acres in the United States over the coming decades.
So developers, operators, biologists and environmentalists are teaming up with an innovative strategy.
"We have to address both challenges at the same exact time," said Rebecca Hernandez, a professor of ecology at the University of California, Davis, whose research focuses on how to do just that.
Insects, those small animals that play a mighty role in supporting life on Earth, are facing alarming declines. Solar farms can offer them food and shelter by providing a diverse mix of native plants.
Such plants can also decrease erosion, nourish the soil and store planet-warming carbon. They can also attract insects that improve pollination of nearby crops.
Pollinator friendly solar can pay off for business, too, potentially saving money and giving projects an edge for approval at a time when communities are increasingly wary of vast solar farms. Developers are taking note.
But there's a broad spectrum of pollinator friendliness and little agreement on what efforts should count. Standards are often nonexistent. Some big projects are limiting pollinator habitat to tiny corners of their sites. Ecological value varies widely.
Communities may not understand the difference, and corporate marketing may exaggerate. That's led to accusations of greenwashing.
Pollinator habitat on solar farms is "a serious work in progress," said Scott Black, executive director of the Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation, a nonprofit group that is working on an effort to bring some clarity by certifying solar sites.
"It's not fair if some people are truly stepping up to do this right and another company is barely doing anything and saying they're pollinator friendly," he said.
On a recent morning at the solar meadow in Ramsey, it was time to count insects.
Among the rows of panels at the 18-acre site, Lee Walston, a landscape ecologist at Argonne National Laboratory, found the plastic flags marking one of his research tracts. He set off with two students through plants that brushed above their knees, eyes scanning below.
"There's a sweat bee," Mr. Walston said, pointing to a bee that glistened metallic green.
"I've got a moth and two hoverflies," one of the students said. The other recorded observations.
In solar pollinator habitat, Minnesota was an early leader among states. Since 2017, funded by the Department of Energy, Mr. Walston has been studying sites there and throughout the Midwest.
"If you build it, will they come?" he asks in his research. So far the answer is a resounding yes, if you grow the right plants.
In a study published late last year, his team found that insect abundance had tripled over five years on test plots at two other Minnesota solar sites. The abundance of native bees grew twentyfold.
Native plants attract a range of pollinators.Credit...Tim Gruber for The New York Times
The results come amid a global decline of wildlife that leaders are struggling to address. Some of the most well-known insect species are in trouble: Later this year, the federal government is expected to rule on whether to place monarch butterflies on the Endangered Species List. North American birds, for their part, are down almost 30 percent since 1970.
But at this site, called Anoka County Solar, acoustic monitoring has documented 73 species of birds, presumably attracted by the buffet of seeds and insects. Some build nests in the structures supporting the panels.

Mammals are showing up, too. Mr. Walston checked a trail camera before leaving, hoping to discover the occupant of a remarkably large burrow: A fox, he thought, or a badger. No luck.
(It's trickier to make solar sites friendly to large wild animals, in part because developers are nervous to let them near expensive infrastructure, but efforts are underway there, too.)
What makes this meadow possible is the height of the panels. A prairie restoration firm had told ENGIE, the owner and developer, that taller panels would allow for a sharp increase in native vegetation species, providing much more ecological diversity, said John Gantner, the director of engineering and delivery for ENGIE's smaller-scale sites.
The price of the additional steel and the native seeds were "insignificant to the overall project cost," Mr. Gantner said. Over the life of the project, ENGIE has found, pollinator friendly landscaping actually saves money because it needs far less mowing.
"We've calculated and ran the numbers and there's significant savings," Mr. Gantner said.
But many other projects, especially big utility-scale sites, avoid the taller panels. Margins are razor tight, developers say, and the higher costs up front feel too risky or even insurmountable.
That limits the options for landscapers.
"When I sit down and do a utility-scale solar project seed mixture, and I look in my toolbox, it's like I have a rusty screwdriver and a roll of duct tape," said Peter Berthelsen, a wildlife biologist who runs a company that specializes in creating habitat for solar projects.
So he scours his sites for any patch of land that doesn't have panels. In those areas, which he said often encompass 10 or 20 percent of a given site, he plants a native pollinator mix of at least 40 species.
Under the panels, he and others often turn to Dutch white clover. While that provides some nectar for native insects like bumblebees, it's considered better forage for honeybees, an introduced agricultural species. (Honeybees pollinate plants and make a delicious food for people, but ecologists generally don't view them as wildlife in need of conservation.)
The more plant diversity allowed under the panels, Mr. Berthelsen said, the more environmental benefits will follow. Still, he cautioned, it's important to "not let the pursuit of perfect be the enemy of doing something good."
In measuring ecological value, the starting point is fundamental, scientists say. Replacing a field of row crops with solar panels and clover would provide a net benefit for pollinators, even without a mix of native species. On the other hand, no amount of high-quality seeding will match the ecological value of an intact ecosystem, especially in places where solar panels would require the removal of trees or shrubs.
Nationwide, it's unclear what portion of solar farms include any kind of pollinator habitat. The federal project that Mr. Walston is part of has a running rough count of just under 24,000 acres. That's compared with about 600,000 acres of currently operating large-scale sites across the country, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association, with a sharp increase expected over the next couple decades.
Then there's the question of developers delivering on their commitments.
'Not enough plants here'
Four years ago, a project was in development outside Sacramento. Described as "a pollinator friendly solar farm," even its name signaled ecological beauty: Wildflower Solar. "Fostering biodiversity and boosting crop yields for the community," a brochure read.
One aspect of the project, developed by Lightsource BP, which is co-owned by the oil and gas giant, raised questions from the beginning: Diverse pollinator vegetation was restricted to a garden on roughly 1.5 acres of the 67 acre site in an area underneath transmission lines.
Throughout the panels, the company said it would use a seed mix of five native grasses and a smaller amount of native clover. That's better than turfgrass, scientists say, but it doesn't come close to the benefits from a more diverse assemblage. At the time, Lightsource BP defended its decision to a reporter for Inside Climate News, claiming that the entire site would be pollinator friendly.
Dr. Hernandez of U.C. Davis wished the project was going further. But she was pleased about one thing: a pledge to plant more than 200 native trees and shrubs along the perimeter, on the edge of a rural neighborhood. The plantings would not only create a more attractive view for the community, but also a corridor of habitat for wildlife.
But when she drove by last year, Dr. Hernandez said, she didn't see any plantings.
In May, Dr. Hernandez accompanied me to Wildflower. The 200 trees and shrubs, promised both in planning documents submitted to the county and in marketing materials, were nowhere to be seen. Instead, the area was overgrown with invasive grasses and noxious weeds like yellow star thistle, which the state has spent millions trying to eradicate. After tromping through shoulder-high, dried-out vegetation, we found the remnants of a few plantings underneath.

Dr. Hernandez visited the Wildflower Solar site in Rio Linda, Calif. Credit...Loren Elliott for The New York Times
"There's not enough plants here," Dr. Hernandez said. "And there's no vegetation management."
In an interview and follow-up emails, representatives of Lightsource BP said the trees and shrubs had been planted around fall 2020 and blamed droughts for their demise. They said they had instructed their landscaping contractor "to solicit replacement plantings and a robust, multiyear care plan for the landscaping trees and shrubs." They did not say why the problems had not been addressed earlier.
Alyssa Edwards, who leads environmental affairs and governmental relations for Lightsource BP, said the company was a leader in the industry when it came to biodiversity.
"It really is in our ethos, and it's embedded into the way we develop, construct and operate projects," Ms. Edwards said. The company's Facebook page regularly posts about its commitment to biodiversity. But she was clear: "We do not raise our panels to accommodate pollinators."
At least 15 states have some kind of pollinator scorecard, meant to guard against greenwashing by awarding points for various ecologically valuable features. States do not require certification, but in many cases a project must achieve a certain score to declare itself pollinator friendly.
But the scorecards have been criticized as both too weak and too stringent. On one hand, they typically lack a mechanism for monitoring, simply relying on a company's promises. On the other, developers say some of the standards are not feasible given realities on the ground. When some local governments started mandating use of the scorecards, some in the industry pushed back, saying it could have a chilling effect on solar development.
A new nongovernmental certification is in the works, a partnership between the Electric Power Research Institute, an industry-funded research group, and the Xerces Society. But the effort has proceeded slowly as partners try to find compromise between the needs of the solar industry and the needs of nature. The current draft would require 15 percent of vegetated areas on the site to include a diverse mix of native, pollinator friendly vegetation.
"On one side, we want to protect biodiversity and pollinators. On the other side, we need the most efficient way to get kilowatt hours to customers, to power at the plug," said Jessica Fox, a conservation biologist with the electric power institute. "So we're doing this work now to find where is a middle space."
Among the challenges developers face: Higher upfront costs are no guarantee of greater savings. Landscapers with the right experience can be hard to find, as can native seeds.
Not every site is even appropriate for pollinator habitat, Ms. Fox noted. And even when they are, each has its own distinct characteristics. Climate, topography, soil type and other factors all change the palette of possibilities. For example, not far from Wildflower, at a site called Rancho Seco Solar II, the presence of endangered salamanders made it difficult for scientists to prepare the soil before planting a research plot with three native seed mixes.
The site's owner, the Sacramento Municipal Utility District, sees more promise in creating a hedgerow of more than 300 native shrubs and perennials along the perimeter of the site, which can increase habitat connectivity without complicating matters with the solar panels.
Given the urgency to tackle both global warming and biodiversity loss, solar sites should be experimenting with promising solutions, scientists say.
"We're in this infancy, the infancy of trying to make this work and to do better," Dr. Hernandez said. "And we need to get there faster."
#51
The news this week that scientists had achieved a breakthrough in fusion technology was hailed as a milestone on the path toward a future of nearly limitless, emissions-free power.
But if you think that means the days of burning fossil fuels for electricity will soon be over, enabling the world to more easily meet the goal of limiting warming this century, you may end up being disappointed.
The breakthrough is a huge step toward a long-held dream, one that has captured the world's collective imagination: The ability to mimic the way the sun generates the energy that sustains life on Earth, and to control that process for the good of humankind.
The achievement, at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California, "will go down in the history books," said Energy Secretary Jennifer M. Granholm at a news conference Tuesday.
A remarkable achievement
As my colleague Ken Chang wrote, scientists working on a mammoth experiment at Livermore, in which lasers are used to fuse two forms of hydrogen into helium, reported that, for the first time, it had released more energy than the lasers put in.
That's a big deal. Scientists around the world have been trying to develop controllable fusion (as opposed to the out-of-control fusion of a hydrogen bomb) for the better part of a century. While there have been many advances, a fundamental stumbling block remained. Fusion requires so much power, with temperatures of millions of degrees needed for it to occur, that none of the experiments produced a net gain of energy.
That hurdle is now out of the way, at least for this kind of laser-instigated fusion. That makes it easier to envision a future of fusion power plants that would produce essentially no planet-warming carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases. They would also have advantages over current nuclear plants that split, rather than fuse, atoms, because the fuel needed for fusion is more readily available and the radioactive waste produced is far less dangerous and problematic.
... but huge hurdles remain
An experiment like the one at Livermore, in which one tiny pellet was vaporized by 192 laser beams, is one thing, but a power plant that rapidly vaporizes thousands upon thousands of pellets and safely draws off the released energy for conversion into electricity is quite another. That's not to say it can't be done, it will just take time. Lots of time.
The same goes for the other major approach to developing fusion, which uses huge, powerful electromagnets to confine a cloud of hydrogen gas stripped of its electrons, raising temperatures to the point where fusion can occur. This is the so-called tokamak approach (taken from a Russian acronym for the doughnut-like chamber that contains the gas cloud).
In 2017, I visited the largest tokamak project, ITER, in southern France. It's a mind-bogglingly complex machine, a multinational effort being assembled from parts produced in many countries. The project was first envisioned in the 1980s; the hope is that it will produce fusion by the mid-2030s.
But ITER, like the Livermore project, is only an experiment. Even if ITER works, designing and building a plant that captures the energy from a tokamak and converts it to electricity is most likely very far-off.
And the world needs to sharply cut emissions soon. To limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above 19th-century levels, the stricter of two limits that came out of the 2015 Paris climate talks, emissions need to reach nearly zero by 2050.
So even if fusion power plants become a reality, it likely would not happen in time to help stave off the near-term worsening effects of climate change. It's far better, many climate scientists and policymakers say, to focus on currently available renewable energy technologies like solar and wind power to help reach these emissions targets.
When could the power start to flow?
So if fusion isn't a quick climate fix, could it be a more long-term solution to the world's energy needs? Perhaps, but cost may be an issue. The National Ignition Facility at Livermore, where the experiment was conducted, was built for $3.5 billion. ITER's price tag, so far, is more than $20 billion. It's unclear whether the world could afford any fusion power plants that resulted from these two projects.
In recent years there has been a proliferation of private, smaller efforts at developing fusion power, some using alternative approaches. More than 30 companies are working on the technology, about two-thirds of them in the United States, according to the Fusion Industry Association, a trade group. Together they have received nearly $5 billion in private investment.
Of these efforts, Commonwealth Fusion, a company spun off from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is among the most advanced. As I wrote in 2020, a series of peer-reviewed studies showed that the approach, a much more compact tokamak than ITER that makes use of advances in electromagnet technology, could work.
The company has raised nearly $2 billion, has begun construction of a test reactor outside of Boston, and is developing plans for a fusion power plant as well.
The Fusion Industry Association says that most of the companies involved in these smaller efforts predict that fusion will provide electricity to the grid sometime in the 2030s. That may be an aspirational, rather than realistic, goal. But if fusion power is to become commercially viable and a clean-energy alternative, perhaps it will be through one or more of these efforts.
#52
A team of economists recently analyzed 20 years of peer-reviewed research on the social cost of carbon, an estimate of the damage from climate change. They concluded that the average cost, adjusted for improved methods, is substantially higher than even the U.S. government's most up-to-date figure.
That means greenhouse gas emissions, over time, will take a larger toll than regulators are accounting for. As tools for measuring the links between weather patterns and economic output evolve - and the interactions between weather and the economy magnify the costs in unpredictable ways - the damage estimates have only risen.
It's the kind of data that one might expect to set off alarm bells across the financial industry, which closely tracks economic developments that might affect portfolios of stocks and loans. But it was hard to detect even a ripple.
In fact, the news from Wall Street lately has mostly been about retreat from climate goals, rather than recommitment. Banks and asset managers are withdrawing from international climate alliances and chafing at their rules. Regional banks are stepping up lending to fossil fuel producers. Sustainable investment funds have sustained crippling outflows, and many have collapsed.
So what explains this apparent disconnect? In some cases, it's a classic prisoner's dilemma: If firms collectively shift to cleaner energy, a cooler climate benefits everyone more in the future. But in the short term, each firm has an individual incentive to cash in on fossil fuels, making the transition much harder to achieve.
And when it comes to avoiding climate damage to their own operations, the financial industry is genuinely struggling to comprehend what a warming future will mean.
To understand what's going on, put yourself in the shoes of a banker or an asset manager.
In 2021, President Biden brought the United States back into the Paris Agreement, and his financial regulators started issuing reports about the risk that climate change posed to the financial system. A global compact of financial institutions made commitments worth $130 trillion to try to bring down emissions, confident that governments would create a regulatory and financial infrastructure to make those investments profitable. And in 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act passed.
Since then, hundreds of billions of dollars have flowed into renewable-energy projects in the United States. But that doesn't mean they're a sure bet for people paid to build investment strategies. Clean-energy stocks have been pummeled by high interest rates and supply-chain hiccups, resulting in the cancellation of offshore wind projects. If you bought some of the largest solar-energy exchange-traded funds in early 2023, you would have lost about 20 percent of your money, while the rest of the stock market soared.
"If we think about what is going to be the best way to tilt your portfolios in the direction to benefit, it's really difficult to do," said Derek Schug, the head of portfolio management for Kestra Investment Management. "These will probably be great investments over 20 years, but when we're judged over one to three years, it's a little more challenging for us."
Some firms cater to institutional clients, like public employee pension funds, that want combating climate change to be part of their investment strategy and are willing to take a short-term hit. But they aren't a majority. And over the past couple of years, many banks and asset managers have shrunk from anything with a climate label for fear of losing business from states that frown on such concerns.
On top of that, the war in Ukraine scrambled the financial case for backing a rapid energy transition. Artificial intelligence and the movement toward greater electrification are adding demand for power, and renewables haven't kept up. So banks kept lending to oil and gas producers, which have been churning out record profits. Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said in his annual letter to shareholders that simply halting oil and gas projects would be "naïve."
All of that is about the relative appeal of investments that would slow climate change. What about the risk that climate change poses to the financial industry's own investments, through more powerful hurricanes, heat waves that knock out power grids, wildfires that wipe out towns?
There is evidence that banks and investors price in some physical risk, but also that much of it still lurks, unheeded.
Over the past year, the Federal Reserve asked the nation's six largest banks to examine what would happen to their balance sheets if a large hurricane hit the Northeast. A summary last month reported that the institutions found it difficult to assess the impact on loan default rates because of a lack of information on property characteristics, their counterparties and especially insurance coverage.
Parinitha Sastry, an assistant professor of finance at Columbia Business School, studied shaky insurers in states like Florida and found that coverage was often much weaker than it appeared, making mortgage defaults after hurricanes likelier.
"I'm very, very worried about this, because insurance markets are this opaque weak link," Dr. Sastry said. "There are parallels to some of the complex linkages that happened in 2008, where there is a weak and unregulated market that spills over to the banking system."
Regulators worry that failing to understand those ripple effects could not just put a single bank in trouble but even become a contagion that would undermine the financial system. They have set up systems to monitor potential problems, which some financial reformers have criticized as inadequate.
But while the European Central Bank has made climate risk a consideration in its policy and oversight, the Federal Reserve has resisted taking a more active role, despite indications that extreme weather is feeding inflation and that high interest rates are slowing the transition to clean energy.
"The argument has been, 'Unless we can convincingly show it's part of our mandate, Congress should deal with it, it's none of our business,'" said Johannes Stroebel, a finance professor at New York University's Stern School of Business.
Ultimately, that view might prove correct. Banks are in the business of risk management, and as tools for climate forecasting and modeling improve, they can stop lending to obviously at-risk businesses and places. But that only creates more problems for the people in those places when credit and business investment dry up.
"You can conclude it's not a threat to financial stability, and there can still be large economic losses," Dr. Stroebel noted.
While assessing where the risks lie in one's portfolio remains difficult, a much nearer-term uncertainty looms: the outcome of the U.S. election, which could determine whether further action is taken to address climate concerns or existing efforts are rolled back. An aggressive climate strategy might not fare as well during a second Trump administration, so it may seem wise to wait and see how it shakes out.
"Given the way our system has moved so far, it's so slow moving that there's still time to get on the other side of the proverbial fence," said Nicholas Codola, a senior portfolio manager at Brinker Capital Investments.
John Morton served as a climate counselor to Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen before rejoining the Pollination Group, a climate-focused advisory and investment management firm. He has observed that big companies are hesitating on climate-sensitive investments as November approaches, but says that "two things are misguided and quite dangerous about that hypothesis."
One: States like California are establishing stricter rules for carbon-related financial disclosures and may step it up further if Republicans win. And two: Europe is phasing in a "carbon border adjustment mechanism," which will punish polluting companies that want to do business there.
"Our view is, be careful," Mr. Morton said. "You're going to be disadvantaged in the market if you're left holding a big bag of carbon 10 years from now."
But at the moment, even European financial institutions feel pressure from the United States, which - while providing some of the most generous subsidies so far for renewable-energy investment - has not imposed a price on carbon.
The global insurance company Allianz has set out a plan to align its investments in a way that would prevent warming above 1.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century, if everyone else did the same. But it's difficult to steer a portfolio to climate-friendly assets while other funds take on polluting companies and reap short-term profits for impatient clients.
"This is the main challenge for an asset manager, to really bring the customer along," said Markus Zimmer, an Allianz economist. Asset managers don't have sufficient tools on their own to move money out of polluting investments and into clean ones, if they want to stay in business, he said.
"Of course it helps if the financial industry is somehow ambitious, but you cannot really substitute the lack of actions by policymakers," Dr. Zimmer added. "In the end, it's very hard to get around."
According to new research, the benefit is greater when decarbonization occurs faster, because the risks of extreme damage mount as time goes on. But without a uniform set of rules, someone is bound to scoop up the immediate profits, disadvantaging those that don't - and the longer-term outcome is adverse for all.
"The worst thing is if you commit your business model to 1.5-degree compliance, and three degrees are realized," Dr. Zimmer said.
#53
Central Sardinia is not generally considered a hotbed of innovation: Arid and rural, some of its road signs riddled with bullet holes made by target-practicing locals, the setting recalls a Clint Eastwood western. Yet in Ottana, on the brownfield site of a former petrochemical plant, a new technology is taking shape that might help the world slow climate change. The key component of this technology is as unlikely as the remote location: carbon dioxide, the chief cause of global warming.
Energy Dome, a start-up based in Milan, runs an energy-storage demonstration plant that helps to address a mismatch in the local electricity market. "In Sardinia during the day, everyone goes to the sea," Claudio Spadacini, chief executive of Energy Dome, said. "They don't use electricity, but there's a lot of supply," he added, referring to the Italian island's abundant sunlight.
Energy Dome uses carbon dioxide held in a huge balloon, the "dome" in the company's name, as a kind of battery. During the day, electricity from the local grid, some produced by nearby fields of solar cells, is used to compress the carbon dioxide into liquid. At night, the liquid carbon dioxide is expanded back into gas, which drives a turbine and produces electricity that is sent back to the grid.
Solar and wind power are fast-growing renewable sources, but they rely on nature's intermittent schedule to produce electricity. Many researchers and policymakers say that storing such energy until needed, for hours or even days, is key to transitioning economies away from fossil fuels. "Advancing energy-storage technologies is critical to achieving a decarbonized power grid," Jennifer M. Granholm, the U.S. energy secretary, said in a 2022 statement, when her department announced that it would commit more than $300 million for long-duration energy storage.
Companies are developing and marketing varied and creative ways to store renewable energy: liquefying carbon dioxide, de-rusting iron, heating towers filled with sand to temperatures almost hot enough to melt aluminum. But predicting our energy-storage needs in the future, after a huge energy transformation, is a daunting prospect, and which of these approaches, if any, will prove effective and profitable is unclear.
"There is a real urgency around decarbonizing electricity on a timeline that is much faster than we've contemplated in the past," said Elaine Hart, founding principal with Moment Energy Insights LLC, a clean-energy consultancy. "We don't need technologies like long-duration energy storage or hydrogen today, but we might need them on a large scale in the next 15 to 20 years, so we're in a critical time for their development."
The construction of a warehouse for Energy Dome, which uses a carbon dioxide compressor; the control room of Ottana Energia, a former petrochemical plant next door.
Supplanting the Standards
For decades, many electric utilities responded to fluctuating demand by using pumped hydroelectric storage, which generates electricity when demand for electricity is high, then pumps water from a lower reservoir to a higher one to store energy when there is excess supply. Some utilities are now installing new pumped hydroelectric storage to balance solar and wind production. Many other utilities are installing arrays of lithium-ion batteries to store excess energy produced by renewables, and that market is booming.
But these storage methods have limitations. Pumped hydroelectric requires - and alters - hilly landscapes, and the facilities cost a lot to build. Lithium is a limited resource that is often dirty to mine, and it becomes excessively expensive when designed to store energy for much more than four hours, which may be an important capability if intermittent sources provide the majority of a grid's power.
"Long-duration storage generally doesn't become necessary until you get to high levels of wind and solar," said Scott Murtishaw, executive director of the California Energy Storage Alliance, an industry group that advocates more storage on electric grids. "But it is critical if you're committed to really decarbonizing the grid."
Westinghouse Electric, a supplier of products and services to nuclear plant operators, says that its new energy-storage technology, which depends on carbon dioxide, like Energy Dome's approach, is an improvement on pumped hydro and lithium-ion. The company's technology works like a heat pump, using carbon dioxide in a supercritical state - at such high temperature and pressure that it acts like a hybrid of a liquid and a gas - to transfer heat, produced by excess electricity, into concrete blocks. Later on, the heat stored in the blocks is used to generate electricity. "It's kind of ironic that carbon dioxide is the material that led to a lot of the innovation here," John Battaglini, Westinghouse's vice-president of new market development for the Americas, said.
In September, Westinghouse announced that it would build a 100-megawatt storage facility in Alaska, enough to supply about 80,000 average American homes with electricity for up to 12 hours. He added that the facility would cost about half that of one using lithium-ion batteries: "We feel very, very good about the economics."
Some companies are anticipating a time when most of our electricity comes from renewables and grids that require much longer-duration storage. Form Energy, based in Somerville, Mass., aims to provide electricity for 100 hours, after some studies found that grids based on renewables would need to be able to provide backup energy for about that long.
To provide that much capacity affordably, Form had to find a very low-cost storage process, so the company turned to a cheap, ubiquitous material that undergoes a well-understood reaction: the oxidation, or rusting, of iron. As iron rusts, it produces energy; by feeding energy back into the system, Form can reverse the reaction and store energy, which can be released later by rusting the iron again.
Form's storage system uses a specially tuned form of iron to maximize reversibility and durability. "That's where there's been a lot of invention on our side," Mateo Jaramillo, Form's co-founder and chief executive, said. "That's one of the key tricks - our trade secret."
Form says it can install storage capacity at a price that's roughly one-tenth that of lithium-ion batteries. "The trade-off is lower cost, lower efficiency," Mr. Jaramillo said. "Our modeling shows we've reached the right level of cost and efficiency."
Last year, Form announced agreements to build plants in six states, each with 100-hour capacity, providing 55 total megawatts. The company is also building a battery-manufacturing facility in Weirton, W.Va., on the site of a former steel plant that declined in recent decades, depressing the local economy. West Virginia's governor, Jim Justice, a Republican, visited the site last December for the signing of a bill that appropriated $105 million from the state to help build the facility.
Mateo Jaramillo, chief executive of Form Energy, which says it can install storage capacity at roughly one-tenth the cost of lithium-ion batteries. "The trade-off is lower cost, lower efficiency," he said.
The Dunkelflaute and Schwarzenegger Effects
Corre Energy, based in the Netherlands, is working on storing energy for several days by compressing air to high pressure inside salt caverns, where natural underground salt deposits are dissolved away to leave large empty pockets.
In June, Corre announced a deal in Germany to provide up to 640 megawatts of electricity, enough to supply about 1.6 million German homes, for up to 125 hours, at about one-tenth the cost of lithium-ion. Corre's partner is developing four caverns there now, with two set to go into operation in 2027.
Corre says that the demand for long-duration storage is high in Northern Europe, which is keen on renewables but prone to multiday periods of little wind and sunlight, known in green-energy circles (and German) as dunkelflaute.
"We're addressing that accelerating demand" for long-duration storage, Keith McGrane, chief executive of Corre, said. "It's the dunkelflaute effect."
Some companies are pursuing approaches that can sound surprisingly simple. A Finnish start-up called Polar Night Energy uses excess electricity to heat sand to temperatures as high as 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit. The sand can later be used to provide up to 100 hours of heat to local homes and businesses. Earlier this month, the company announced a deal to build a storage facility for the town of Pornainen, with a projected reduction of emissions by nearly 70 percent. The company is also developing a method to start providing electricity in addition to heat.
Tommi Eronen, the chief executive of Polar Night Energy, spoke in May at a climate conference in Vienna. He promoted the company to other green-leaning attendees, including the conference founder, Arnold Schwarzenegger. "It was fun to hang out with Arnold for three days. He was a nice guy," Mr. Eronen said. "Of course, we disagree on some points. I'm more into cycling than driving cars."
The road from concept to company and infrastructure is always precarious, and long-term energy storage faces particular challenges.
Utilities have used short-term storage for decades, but there has never been much of a market for storage over many hours or days. It's not clear how storage companies could make enough money to pay for the huge increase in storage that proponents say is necessary. "The biggest challenge with long-duration energy storage is that the economics are lousy," said James Bushnell, an economist at the University of California, Davis, who studies energy. "If your storage is sitting charged for weeks or months, that's much less revenue."
Mr. Battaglini of Westinghouse said the company was exploring this challenge with regional utilities and independent system operators, the nonprofit groups that oversee electric grids. Form Energy has created models to show electric utilities how to use long-duration batteries so that they're profitable.
"You can't know what you need if you can't model it," Mr. Murtishaw said. "It's like the iPhone - a product you didn't know you needed until someone made it."
Another issue for the new storage approaches is the dominance and continued improvement of lithium-ion batteries. As manufacturers improve the design of batteries and scale up their production, the cost continues to decrease, gradually making lithium-ion more economical for longer durations.
These challenges have hurt some makers of long-term storage. Azelio, a company that stored energy as heat in an aluminum alloy inside modular units, declared bankruptcy in July.
Still, some providers of long-duration storage say that the market is growing fast and that they are ramping up construction to meet the demand.
In Ottana, diggers are clearing away blackened rubble from the remains of old industrial buildings to make room for a commercial-scale Energy Dome storage facility that will hold 40 times as much energy as the adjacent pilot plant. Despite the superficial differences, Mr. Spadacini described the shiny Energy Dome facility as a sort of descendant of the dirtier oil-fueled generator that used to run on the same site. "The energy of oil was energy from the sun, and it was stored at some efficiency in oil," he said, noting that oil derives mostly from photosynthetic plants. "We need to store and use that energy as directly and efficiently as possible."
#54
Nations need to move away much faster from fossil fuels to retain any hope of preventing a perilous future on an overheated planet, according to a major new report on climate change released on Monday, although they have made some progress because of the falling costs of clean energy.
The report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a body of experts convened by the United Nations, warns that unless countries drastically accelerate efforts over the next few years to slash their emissions from coal, oil and natural gas, the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, or 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, will likely be out of reach by the end of this decade.
That's the threshold beyond which scientists say the dangers of global warming - including worsening floods, droughts, wildfires and ecosystem collapse - grow considerably. Humans have already heated the planet by an average of 1.1 degrees Celsius since the 19th century, largely by burning fossil fuels for energy.
But the task is daunting: Holding warming to just 1.5 degrees Celsius would require nations to collectively reduce their planet-warming emissions roughly 43 percent by 2030 and to stop adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere altogether by the early 2050s, the report found. By contrast, current policies by governments are only expected to reduce global emissions by a few percentage points this decade. Last year, fossil fuel emissions worldwide rebounded to near-record highs after a brief dip as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.
"This is a climate emergency," said United Nations Secretary General António Guterres, adding that wealthy economies and corporations "are not just turning a blind eye; they are adding fuel to the flames. They are choking our planet, based on their vested interests and historic investments in fossil fuels, when cheaper, renewable solutions provide green jobs, energy security and greater price stability."
The report, which was approved by 195 governments and lays out strategies that countries could pursue to halt global warming, comes as Russia's invasion of Ukraine has caused oil and gas prices to skyrocket, diverting political attention from climate change. In the United States and Europe, leaders are focused on shoring up domestic fossil fuel supplies to avoid price spikes and energy shortages, even if that means higher short term emissions.
Yet climate scientists say there is little margin for delay if the world wants to hold global warming to relatively tolerable levels.
"Every year that you let pass without going for these urgent emissions reductions makes it more and more difficult," said Jim Skea, an energy researcher at Imperial College London who helped lead the report, which was compiled by 278 experts from 65 countries. "Unless we really do it immediately, it will not be possible to limit warming to 1.5 degrees."
But even if that goal becomes unattainable, scientists said, it will still be worthwhile for countries to slash emissions as quickly as possible to prevent as much warming as they can. Every additional rise in global temperatures increases the perils that people face around the world, such as water scarcity, malnutrition and life-threatening heat waves, the U.N. panel has found.
"Every fraction of a degree matters," Dr. Skea said. "Even if we go beyond 1.5, that doesn't mean we throw up our hands and despair."
Scientists say that global warming will largely halt once humans stop adding heat-trapping gases to the atmosphere, a concept known as "net zero" emissions.
The new report contains glimmers of optimism. Over the past decade, many nations have adopted ambitious climate policies, scaled back plans for new coal plants and used subsidies and regulations to expand renewable energy. Although emissions from fossil fuels are still growing worldwide, the rate of growth slowed in the 2010s, compared with the 2000s, the report said, and humanity now has a much better shot at avoiding some of the worst-case global warming scenarios once widely feared by scientists.
Clean energy technology has advanced far more quickly than expected, the report said. Since 2010, the costs of solar panels and lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles have plunged by 85 percent, while the cost of wind turbines has fallen by more than half.
Rapidly shifting away from the fossil fuels that have underpinned economies for more than a century will require nations to do much more, however. Over the next decade, governments and companies would need to invest three to six times the roughly $600 billion they currently spend annually on encouraging clean energy and cutting emissions, the report said.
But the cost of inaction is also substantial, in terms of deaths, displacement and damage. In the United States last year, damages from floods, wildfires, drought and other disasters related to weather and climate totaled approximately $145 billion, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The agency said that "extremely high" levels of disasters were becoming "the new normal."
"Reducing emissions substantially is much less painful than you would think, and probably beneficial in the short term," said Glen Peters of the Center for International Climate Research in Oslo, Norway, who contributed to the report.
The new report examines dozens of strategies proposed by scientists and energy experts to help nations make the transition.
First, countries would need to clean up virtually all power plants worldwide that generate electricity for homes and factories. That means relying more on wind, solar, nuclear, geothermal or hydropower. Most of the world's coal and natural gas plants would either need to shut down or install carbon capture technology that can trap emissions and bury them underground. Such technology has been slow to take off because of its high costs.
The next step would be to reconfigure transportation, industry and other segments of the global economy to run on clean electricity rather than fossil fuels. Cars powered by gasoline could be replaced with electric vehicles charged by low-carbon grids. Gas-burning furnaces in homes could be swapped out for electric heat pumps. Instead of burning coal, steel mills could shift to electric furnaces that melt scrap.
At the same time, nations could take steps to reduce their total energy demand. That could entail expanding public transit, upgrading insulation so homes consume less energy, recycling more raw materials and making factories more energy efficient. At the high end, such demand-side policies could help cut emissions in key sectors as much as 40 to 70 percent by 2050, the report notes.
But many economic activities can't be easily electrified. Batteries are still too heavy for most airplanes. Many industries, like cement and glass, require extreme heat and currently burn coal or gas. For those emissions, governments and businesses will have to develop new fuels and industrial processes, the report said.
Countries will also need to address emissions from deforestation and agriculture, which account for around a fifth of global greenhouse gases. That means dealing with issues like global meat production, which emits methane and carbon dioxide, and is causing rampant deforestation in vital places like the Amazon rainforest.
Forests and wetlands naturally store carbon dioxide, which makes sparing them from destruction a highly effective and economical way to mitigate warming, said Stephanie Roe, a World Wildlife Fund scientist who helped write the report. "I can't reiterate enough the importance of conserving those ecosystems," she said.
Even in the best case, humanity is unlikely to eliminate all of its planet warming emissions, the report warned. So countries will likely also have to devise ways to remove billions of tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere each year by around midcentury. One strategy could be to plant more trees, although that may not be enough, the report cautioned. Other options include devices that suck carbon out of the air, though these technologies are still immature.
The report, explained
Five takeaways from the latest I.P.C.C. report.
The report acknowledges the enormous challenges ahead. Winding down coal, oil and gas projects would mean job losses and financial dislocation. Some climate solutions come with major trade-offs: Protecting forests, for instance, leaves less land for growing crops or raising livestock to feed a world population that keeps growing.
And some of the biggest obstacles to climate action are political, not technological. The report notes that "incumbent fossil fuel interests" often work to thwart policies to cut emissions. Organized disinformation campaigns by climate change deniers have, in some places, increased political polarization over the issue. And politicians tend to avoid difficult decisions if the benefits are not felt beyond the current election cycle.
In the developing world, governments still need to expand access to electricity and modern cooking fuels for hundreds of millions of the poorest people, which might only be possible in the short term by burning more fossil fuels. These nations have benefited from advances in renewable energy technology, but efforts to cut emissions deeply have run up against two longstanding issues: high costs and overstretched governments.
"If technology could solve the problem completely, the problem could have been solved two or three decades ago," said Wei Shen, a researcher at the Institute of Development Studies, a think tank in Britain, who helped write the report.
There is strong political will in many developing nations to tackle climate change, said Fatima Denton, director of the United Nations University Institute for Natural Resources in Africa and another author of the report. But greater financial support from wealthy nations is critical, she said, partly as a matter of fairness and historical responsibility: Western countries that got rich by burning fossil fuels are now effectively telling poor nations that they cannot do the same.
"You're telling them to leave their resources in the ground, when they have always more or less seen these as the route to more capitalism, more wealth, more prosperity," Dr. Denton said.
China's leader, Xi Jinping, said last year that his country would stop building new coal plants overseas, a major step toward promoting green energy in the developing world. At home, though, China is digging up and burning more coal to keep electricity flowing amid the economic disruptions of the war in Ukraine and the coronavirus pandemic. China is the planet's top emitter of greenhouse gases.
"It's unfortunate: These recent crises just demonstrate that if decarbonization happened earlier, then China, as well as other regions, would have been more resilient to some of these shocks," said Cecilia Han Springer, a China expert at Boston University. "But that means there's also an opportunity to double down."
India's government has increased energy efficiency in homes and factories, given farmers solar-powered water pumps and helped promote the rapid construction of solar farms. But the country's state-run electric utilities remain in fragile fiscal health, meaning there is no guarantee that efforts to expand clean energy will be financially sustainable.
In remarks Monday, Mr. Guterres urged people around the world to press for action. "If you live in a big city, a rural area, or a small island state, if you invest in the stock market, if you care about justice, and our children's future, I am appealing directly to you," he said. "Demand that renewable energy is introduced now - at speed and at scale. Demand an end to coal-fired power. Demand an end to all fossil fuel subsidies."
Worldwide, slashing emissions requires overhauling the way governments, businesses and even societies work, said Dr. Denton of the United Nations University. "That's not an overnight thing, and it comes with some cost, whether we like it or not."
#55
Cindy Camp is one of many Americans facing rising utility costs. Ms. Camp, who lives in Baltimore with three family members, said her gas and electric bills kept "going up and up" - reaching as high as $900 a month. Her family has tried to use less hot water by doing fewer loads of laundry, and she now eats more fast food to save on grocery bills.
Ms. Camp would like to save money on energy bills by transitioning to more energy-efficient appliances like a heat pump and solar panels. But she simply cannot afford it.
"It's a struggle for me to even maintain food," Ms. Camp said.
Power bills have been rising nationwide, and in Baltimore, electricity rates have increased almost 30 percent over the last decade, according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. While clean energy systems and more efficient appliances could help low-income households mitigate some of those increases, many face barriers trying to gain access to those products.
Low-income households have been slower to adopt clean energy because they often lack sufficient savings or have low credit scores, which can impede their ability to finance projects. Some have also found it difficult to navigate federal and state programs that would make installations more affordable, and many are renters who cannot make upgrades themselves.
Energy costs have traditionally been a bigger burden for low-income households, which typically spend a far larger percentage of their gross income on utility bills than higher-earning households, according to the Energy Department. Many also live in older, less efficient homes, which can lead to more expensive utility bills. In 2020, 34 million U.S. households, or 27 percent of all households, reported difficulty paying their energy bills or kept their homes at an unsafe temperature because of energy cost concerns, according to the Energy Information Administration.
The Biden administration has deployed a suite of programs to try to increase access to clean energy and lower household utility bills. The efforts are part of a broader push to reduce carbon emissions in response to climate change, which often disproportionately affects disadvantaged communities.
That includes rebates for energy-efficient appliances and tax credits for purchases of solar panels and electric cars. In recent months, administration officials have awarded funding for energy efficiency upgrades at federally subsidized housing properties. The federal government will also offer bonus tax credits for clean energy investments in low-income areas and provide billions to increase access to residential solar.
In remarks on Wednesday about the administration's efforts to make energy more affordable, Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen said the policies could help reduce energy bills for lower- and middle-income families "right away." She said they were also bolstering domestic clean energy manufacturing, which would lower costs over time.
"This will make clean energy even more affordable for American consumers," Ms. Yellen said at a community college in Boston.
Still, some advocates said it would be a challenge for the administration's investments to reach low-income communities.
"To me the problems for folks in Baltimore and inner cities everywhere, they're identical: 'We struggle to pay our bills now,'" said Kristal Hartsfield, the chief executive of the National Alliance for Equity in Energy and Infrastructure, which connects communities and companies on issues related to changes in the energy sector. "We can't flip the switch to clean energy tomorrow."
Although White House officials said they were providing technical assistance to help people gain access to new programs, many who want to take advantage of federal and state programs said they often faced a major hurdle: paperwork.
Ms. Camp, 56, lives in a single-family home in a Northeast Baltimore neighborhood, where she has never seen a solar panel on a home or residents with electric vehicles. Still, she wants solar power and a heat pump - if she could navigate through the depths of the application process.
"It's really discouraging," said Ms. Camp, an AmeriCorps member. "The red tape is so thick."

Patricia Johnson with her husband, Glenwood Johnson. Ms. Johnson said that she could not afford to pay the $10,000 to $15,000 needed to replace her home's heater.Credit...Lexey Swall for The New York Times
Patricia Johnson, 68, a retired machine operator who lives with her husband in East Baltimore, said her home's heater was more than two decades old and in need of repair, but she could not afford to pay $10,000 to $15,000 to replace the system.
Ms. Johnson said she found it difficult to figure out which assistance programs she qualified for, so she went to a nearby community center run by GEDCO, a local nonprofit. Ms. Johnson later learned she qualified for a state program that funds energy efficiency upgrades, but it was still difficult to navigate the paperwork and she would not have applied without guidance.
Laurel Peltier, the chair of the Maryland Energy Advocates Coalition and a volunteer at GEDCO who worked with Ms. Johnson, said most of the people she assisted did not have computers or printers, which made it harder for them to apply for and learn about available programs.
"Government agencies have a lot of work to do in distributing programs to low-income people effectively," Ms. Peltier said.
The nation's largest municipal utility, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power; the National Renewable Energy Laboratory; and the University of California, Los Angeles, recently released the first comprehensive study of some of the impacts of the energy transition on low-wealth consumers. The study highlighted growing disparities in Los Angeles between those who can afford clean energy upgrades and those who cannot.
Part of the reality, as Los Angeles recognized in its study and as some energy experts have argued, is that there is a need to educate the public about energy issues as well as how to move to clean energy technologies and find the available incentives.
Experts at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory say the energy transition will require broad participation from utilities and power providers as well as low-income and wealthier Americans. That means more will need to be done to include those who can least afford it.
While many of the new rebates are generous, they still might not cover the full price tag of clean energy products, said Diana Hernandez, an associate professor of sociomedical sciences and a co-director of the Energy Opportunity Lab at the Columbia Center on Global Energy Policy. The cost of heat pumps, which can heat and cool homes more efficiently than typical furnaces and air-conditioners, varies but an average installation costs $16,000. The new rebates, which are not yet available, would only shave up to $8,000 off those systems.
Tax credits can cover 30 percent of the cost of installing solar panels. But many people with low incomes do not owe enough in taxes to take full advantage of them, and the average cost of a residential solar system is roughly $25,000, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association.
Low-income households are less likely to make those upgrades if they are already struggling to afford necessary expenses, and many are also renters who will find it harder to benefit from the new programs because landlords might not be incentivized to make efficiency upgrades, Ms. Hernandez said.
She noted, however, that people could subscribe to a portion of energy generated by "community solar" projects, which are off-site solar systems, or lease panels.
After conducting its study, Los Angeles increased its rebates for used electric vehicles to as much as $4,000 from a maximum of $2,500 for qualified consumers. And the city said it would build and operate its own fast-charging network in low-income communities.
Without such efforts, experts say the energy transition will only work against those who can least afford to participate in it.
"This energy transition, we're still in the process of trying to figure it out," said Stephanie Pincetl, a professor at the U.C.L.A. Institute of the Environment and Sustainability and the director of the university's California Center for Sustainable Communities who participated in the Los Angeles study. "We have to do this right or it's just going to aggravate inequality."
#56
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may be the most important climate agency you've never heard of.
Responsible for overseeing interstate transmission of gas, oil and electricity, the independent agency could help determine how much wind, solar and other renewable energy moves from engineering plans onto the nation's electric grids and into homes and businesses.
On Monday the commission approved long-awaited changes that require grid operators around the country to plan 20 years into the future, taking into account changes in the energy mix, the growing number of states that have policies requiring wind and solar power, as well as the risks that extreme weather poses to reliability.
The vote was 2-to-1, with the commission's Democrats approving and the sole Republican objecting, a partisan split that echoed the divide between the two parties over renewable energy.
What did FERC vote on?
The new rule is the most significant attempt in years to upgrade and expand the country's creaking electricity network.
Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said the decisions made by the commission on Monday were critical to realizing the full extent of the Inflation Reduction Act, the sweeping climate law that Democrats muscled through without Republican support in 2022. The law provides tax incentives of more than $370 billion to jump start electric vehicles and wind, solar and other renewable energy.
But many of those energy projects have been in limbo, unable to connect to electric grids because of a lack of new transmission lines. One study warned that roughly half of the climate benefits under the law could not be realized if transmission capacity, including new high voltage power lines, was not expanded significantly.
"It was a great victory after the I.R.A. was passed, and we got plaudits all around, but I knew even as I was standing up smiling that our work wasn't done," Mr. Schumer said last week in an interview. "If you have lovely windmills in the mountains but you can't bring it to where the people were, it might be for nought. It became clear early on that transmission was so important, that it would be a linchpin in developing clean energy."
The agency was created in 1920 as the Federal Power Commission to control hydropower dams. President Franklin D. Roosevelt later championed legislation to dismantle utility monopolies, and in 1935 Congress passed the Federal Power Act, requiring the commission to set "just and reasonable" wholesale electricity prices.
In the 1970s, it became the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, and got an expanded mandate to regulate interstate electricity, hydroelectric projects and oil and gas pipelines.
"The transmission and pipeline infrastructure of the entire country runs through this one agency," said Rob Gramlich, the president of Grid Strategies, a power sector consulting firm. "Most people who are involved with FERC are happy when it stays out of the news," he added.
In recent years, the commission has become a focal point for the connection between the power grid and climate change. Utilities that burn gas and coal to produce electricity are the second largest source of the pollution that is driving global warming.
In 2021 Richard Glick, who had been appointed to chair the commission by President Biden, said the agency should more fully consider the impacts of climate change when approving natural gas pipelines.
With that focus on climate change, came controversy.
Senator Joe Manchin, the West Virginia Democrat and champion of coal and gas, was irate that Mr. Glick was saying climate change should be a consideration during pipeline discussions. As chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Commission, Mr. Manchin refused to hold a confirmation hearing for Mr. Glick, who ultimately stepped down.
His departure left the commission with a 2-2 partisan split. Under FERC's rules, no more than three of its five commissioners may be from a single party.
To hear Mr. Schumer tell it, that's when Democratic strategizing went into high gear.
Efforts to hammer out bipartisan legislation to speed up electricity transmission remain in limbo. Democrats want to speed up the pace of adding solar and wind to the grid while Republicans in return want faster and easier permitting for fossil fuel projects and pipelines.
Neil Chatterjee, who served as chairman of FERC under President Donald J. Trump said some Republicans have been reluctant to act on transmission because they don't want the Inflation Reduction Act to succeed.
"The Republican Party used to be a party that led on transmission policy," he said. But now "it's seen as facilitating Biden achieving his climate agenda, and they're against it just to be against Biden."
Mr. Schumer said turning to FERC was a way to get around Republican opposition in Congress. "We always had FERC in the back of our minds because it could be done without congressional Republican approval," he said.
When Mr. Glick stepped down, Mr. Schumer said he saw an opportunity. He learned that one of the two Republican commissioners, James Danly, was also poised to relinquish his seat. Mr. Danly left the agency in January, leaving a 2-1 commission in favor of Democrats with Willie L. Phillips, who was appointed by Mr. Biden, serving as chairman. (Nominees are still awaiting confirmation on the commission's two empty seats.)
Mr. Schumer increased pressure on the commission to free up the congested transmission system, writing an open letter in July laying out proposed solutions.
On Monday Mr. Schumer said, "FERC is doing just about everything we asked" and called the rule the "missing piece of the puzzle" to the Inflation Reduction Act. He acknowledged that more must be done on transmission reform, but chances remain dim that Congress will act.
#57
Spend enough time talking about climate change, and you'll eventually get pulled toward this question: What would have to happen for global warming to strike most people as an urgent crisis?
There are many candidates: More extreme heat domes hitting major American cities, coupled with widespread blackouts. Extended droughts across America's farmland, on top of the decades-long depletion of groundwater, leading to food shortages. A two-foot rise in sea levels caused by the collapse of the Thwaites glacier in Antarctica, putting entire coastal regions in the United States underwater.
Those scenarios seem a long way off to many Americans (even if they might not be). But what if the thing that will make climate change feel like a crisis to most everyone is already underway across the country? What if it's the erosion of something entirely mundane, even a little boring, but also essential to modern life?
My colleague Mira Rojanasakul and I have spent most of this year digging into how climate shocks are hitting America's home insurance industry. What we've found looks an awful lot like the early stages of a crisis.
As climate-fueled disasters get worse, home insurance is becoming a money-losing business in more of the country. Without insurance, you can't get a mortgage; without a mortgage, most Americans can't buy a home.
Last year, insurers lost money on homeowners coverage in 18 states, up from 12 states five years ago and eight states in 2013. Nationally, over the past decade, insurers paid out more in claims than they received in premiums, and, since 2018, more than 1.9 million home insurance contracts nationwide have been dropped.
The result is what you could call the Iowa effect: Even in formerly low-risk places like that state, insurers are raising premiums, restricting coverage or simply leaving.
It used to be impossible to know which communities around the country insurers were pulling back from.
This week, that changed. The Senate Budget Committee issued the findings from a yearlong investigation, showing where insurers are dropping customers - year by year, county by county. The result is a new way to map the growing threats of extreme weather.
A map of county-level nonrenewal rates in the United States. Light yellow counties in parts of Minnesota, New York and Pennsylvania signify lower rates, while orange and dark red counties illustrate very high nonrenewal rates in parts of the Carolinas, Gulf Coast, Midwest and California.
"The climate crisis that is coming our way is not just about polar bears, and it's not just about green jobs," Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said during a hearing on Wednesday on the investigation's findings. "It actually is coming through your mail slot, in the form of insurance cancellations, insurance nonrenewals and dramatic increases in insurance costs."
To be sure, climate change isn't the only thing driving insurers' decisions. State regulation, the rising cost of construction, fraud and litigation, and even changes to the global reinsurance market all play a role.
But unlike those other factors, climate change doesn't respond quickly to policy changes, nor is it cyclical. Disasters are going to keep getting worse.
Our reporting points to three things to watch for next:
* What will happen to home prices? Fewer prospective buyers means home values are likely to fall in areas where insurance becomes especially expensive or hard to get. But the pace of those changes is hard to predict.
* How will state governments respond? Insurance is regulated by the states, some of which have been experimenting with new ways to halt the erosion of their markets. Those interventions tend to revolve around giving concessions to insurers that stick around, including making it easier to charge higher premiums. It's far from clear, though, if those steps will be enough.
* Will insurance complicate Donald Trump's plan to ignore climate change? The Treasury Department under President Biden laid the groundwork to gather data about climate change's effects on the insurance market, then backed off in the face of pressure from states and insurers, as my colleague Emily Flitter reported this year. But the incoming Trump administration could be pressured to intervene, especially since some of the highest premium increases are in states that he carried in November.
"Desperation clarifies the mind," Mr. Whitehouse told me this week. "Once the looming danger of a true, systemic, 2008-style mortgage economic meltdown nears, then it's time for everybody to pay attention."
The fix: Vermont this year passed the nation's first climate Superfund law, which will require large fossil fuel companies to pay for climate-change driven damages caused by their emissions over a three-decade period.
State lawmakers in New York passed a similar bill this year, and several other states have considered similar measures.
Vermont is supposed to submit a report to the State Legislature by Jan. 15 detailing how feasible it would be to implement the law. The money the fossil fuel companies would pay would go toward climate adaptation efforts.
The law is intended to recover costs incurred by the state, as opposed to being punitive for fossil fuel companies, said Julie Moore, the Vermont secretary of natural resources, noting that state and local governments have to prepare for climate disruption. "This is an approach to try to secure the resources necessary for that adaptation," Moore said.
In New York State, both chambers of the Statehouse are negotiating with Gov. Kathy Hochul's office on possible amendments to the bill, according to a spokesperson for one of the bill's sponsors. Hochul, a Democrat, has until the end of the year to act on the legislation.
A spokesperson for the governor's office declined to comment on the bill.
The obstacles: The fossil fuel industry has yet to bring any legal challenges against Vermont over the new law, but officials and climate activists expect the sector will. "It's a question of when, not if," Moore said.
Neither the American Petroleum Institute nor the Vermont Petroleum Association responded to requests for comment on whether they intend to bring legal action.
Potential legal challenges aside, figuring out how the Superfund law will work is a tall order. The law calls on the state to determine which companies are responsible for greenhouse gas emissions and how much they've each contributed. One of the biggest issues related to climate change that Vermont faces is flooding, but a lot of work by scientists looking at the cost of climate change has been focused on heat, Moore said.
"As the first state out of the gate, we want to make sure we put forward the best case possible," she said.
What's next: California, Maryland and Massachusetts have also considered climate Superfund legislation over the last few years. Lawmakers in New Jersey introduced a related bill in September.
If other states don't follow Vermont in enacting a climate Superfund law, some climate activists think the fossil fuel industry could have an easier time challenging the state's policy.
A state like New York backing the idea could bring more legal firepower and resources in support of the idea, said Jamie Henn, the founder of Fossil Free Media, a climate advocacy group. - Allison Prang
#59
At a training facility for Consolidated Edison workers in Queens, there is a yard with electric poles where line workers can master climbing skills, a replica of the city's underground electric structures for practice fixing wires, and a library where employees can play the climate change board game Energetic.
A race against time - or, rather, global warming wrought by fossil fuels - the game invites four players to work together to decarbonize New York City by 2035.
The challenge is rooted in reality, said Stephen Wemple, general manager of the Utility of the Future team at Con Ed, the city's largest utility company. Gov. Kathy Hochul has mandated that 70 percent of New York State's energy must be renewable by 2030, and 100 percent by 2040. Currently, renewable energy percentages are in the "high 20s," he said.
Energetic is the brainchild of Richard Reiss, a fellow at the Institute for Sustainable Cities at Hunter College and the founder of City Atlas, an online resource about New York City's transition to green energy. He invented the game along with a group of interns.
The idea came to him after trying one too many times to explain New York City's specific energy challenges to colleagues and students. "We couldn't really find an easy model of how, exactly, New York City would decarbonize," he said. "We wanted to show where everything would go and how it gets there."
The challenge lends itself to a game, he said: "You are trying to build certain stuff, and you have a certain amount of time to do it, and you have obstacles."
In the game, each player takes on a role - politician, engineer, entrepreneur or activist - and together all the players must come up with a plan. "You have the engineer worried about the grid stability, the entrepreneur figuring out how to spend the money to invest in the infrastructure, the politician who is concerned about public opinion, and the activist who is worried about the time scale or how quickly we can do this," Mr. Wemple said.
Complications are also thrown in the mix. Players draw cards that introduce, say, a public protest halting a project or a research failure with an idea that seemed promising.
"It helps you visualize the energy transition and see what are the steps needed," Mr. Wemple said. "You can't just build wind turbines offshore, because you need transmission to bring it to shore."
In 2018, Mr. Reiss sent a few prototypes of his game to energy experts to get their opinions. After Jesse Jenkins, then a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard Kennedy School, posted a photograph of Energetic on Twitter, people started asking for copies, Mr. Reiss said.
John O'Leary, New York State's deputy secretary for energy and environment, bought a few copies. "We sold another to someone in the British government," Mr. Reiss said. "The editor of Nature Energy, a peer-reviewed journal, also has one." There are only a few hundred games in circulation.
Tim Grejtak, who works on low-carbon fuels and energy storage for Con Edison, wants to organize a board game night for his team. "There is a point in the game where you have to add different technologies to make sure the whole grid stays in balance and reliability, and that is exactly what we do," he said.
In New York City, teenagers are playing Energetic at the Bronx High School of Science and Hunter College High School. At Vanderbilt University, in Nashville, Prof. Jonathan M. Gilligan has used the game in a course on climate change. And Carnegie Mellon University, in Pittsburgh, has 13 copies.
Mr. Reiss feels strongly that the game should be in every high school in New York State. He made Energetic the centerpiece of a climate educational program in an appropriations proposal he and colleagues at Hunter College sent to Senator Kirsten Gillibrand's office. The game is priced at $89 and currently costs $110 to make, but it could be mass-produced for $40, Mr. Reiss said.
"It's essentially a way to test out your assumptions," said Matthew Sarker, who teaches Advanced Placement physics and an elective on climate change at Bronx Science. "If you don't want to use nuclear energy at all, you don't have to, but the challenge becomes a little harder. If you don't research any hydrogen storage, you become more reliant on hydropower, which is geographically specific. If you want to use a lot of wind power, you ought to appreciate the scale needed."
After Mr. Sarker's students play the game, he gives them a writing assignment with the following prompt: "Suppose your goal was to provide all of New York State's electricity needs with 100 percent carbon-free energy. What is most needed to reach that goal? Explain why."
Mr. Reiss has observed that Energetic gives young people the confidence to talk about energy issues with their families. "That could make a huge difference in something like permitting or the way people vote," he said.
"It's a big project to transition from fossil fuels," he said. "It is going to take all of us."
#60
Coal Power Defined This Minnesota Town. Can Solar Win It Over?
One of the nation's largest coal-fueled electric plants is being replaced with thousands of acres of solar panels and a test of long-duration batteries.
The past and the future of electricity in America are perhaps most visible in a Minnesota town surrounded by potato farms and cornfields.
Towering over Becker, a community of a little more than 5,000 people northwest of Minneapolis, is one of the nation's largest coal power plants. It is being replaced - to the dismay of some residents - with thousands of acres of solar panels and a test of long-duration batteries.
Becker is one of the first of a group of seven Minnesota municipal areas, called the Coalition of Utility Cities, making the change from a fossil-fuel-based economy to clean energy.
"We are the guinea pig for the whole group," said Tracy Bertram, the mayor of Becker, acknowledging the anxiety some have felt about the loss of an economic anchor. "People don't like change. It's the unknown: 'What will my world look like?'"
When the Sherburne County Generating Station, known as Sherco, completes its renewable project on adjacent land, it will stand as the largest solar farm in the Upper Midwest - replacing three coal units in Becker with three solar sites on the town's outskirts along the Mississippi River.
Becker crystallizes part of the legacy of the administration of Gov. Tim Walz, Vice President Kamala Harris's running mate, and his commitment to Minnesota's goal of 100 percent carbon-free electricity by 2040. And it tests how the energy transition could unfold on a nationwide scale for jobs at decades-old fossil fuel facilities, local tax revenues and agricultural businesses.
President Biden's climate bill, the Inflation Reduction Act, aims to cut U.S. emissions at least 52 percent below 2005 levels by the end of this decade, and his administration is counting on solar power to play a significant role in decarbonizing electricity production. One Energy Department report concluded that solar energy could provide up to 40 percent of the nation's electricity by 2035.
Minnesota is among the states that can benefit from the Inflation Reduction Act by using it as a tool to replace coal plants with sources like solar farms. Through the law, Sherco's owner, Xcel Energy, received tax credits that reduced the cost of the solar project for the utility's ratepayers.
Becker is also one of two sites where Xcel is installing demonstration battery systems from Form Energy, a Massachusetts company. The systems - using readily available materials like water, air and iron - can store solar and wind-generated energy as a backup, with a capacity to power 2,000 homes for up to five days.
"This site is an incredibly valuable epicenter of the Upper Midwest," Bob Frenzel, chairman and chief executive of Xcel Energy, said during a tour of the plant. "When you think about the geography of the grid, it's incredibly valuable to maintain as an energy center."
Besides power plants, much of the economy in and around Becker relies on agriculture, like Edling Farms.
For four generations, the Edling family made a living producing bags of potatoes for retail and wholesale customers, most of that time on land it either owned or leased near the coal plant.
Leasing has become too expensive because landowners can make four times as much from solar farm customers as they can from farmers. Farmers, the Edlings said, were paying a little more than $200 an acre on a lease, but solar developers began offering north of $900.
"Solar is a no-brainer," said Jeff Edling, a co-owner of Edling Farms. "It's a guaranteed check. You can't blame them. Money talks."
But the Edlings have no plans to quit the business their family began more than a century ago. They own the land used for the farm, though about 280 acres were leased and later lost to Xcel Energy's solar project.
"They paid a lot of money for it," Mr. Edling said. "So it is what it is. Everybody's just kind of waiting to see what happens."
Among skeptics of the energy transition, suspicion about solar runs as deep as the town's cornfields are long. The Edlings said some residents questioned whether the solar farms would harm the soil with any chemicals and whether the renewable resource worked as well as the coal plant.
Many in the town still bristle at losing their precious plant, which supplied electricity to hundreds of thousands of homes in and around Minnesota for almost five decades. More than half the 240 jobs at the plant will soon be gone, though Xcel promises no layoffs.
A lonely "Save Our Sherco" lawn sign continues a silent protest at a home near Ms. Bertram's office at City Hall.
"It's a culture transition in addition to an infrastructure transition," said Leah Stokes, an associate professor of environmental politics at the University of California, Santa Barbara. "It may take a little while for people to understand the benefits. All of these things do take time."
Some electricity providers have questioned the pace and breadth of changes that Minnesota has mandated.
"While we recognize the leadership demonstrated in passing policies aimed at reducing carbon emissions, we remain concerned about the legislation's impact on affordability and reliability," Darrick Moe, chief executive of the Minnesota Rural Electric Association, which includes 47 cooperatives that provide power to 1.7 million people, said in a statement.
But Matt Varilek, commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development, said Becker represented the kind of commitment the state was making to fight climate change and the need to ensure that the effort did not harm communities. Success in places like Becker could offer a template to help communities avoid collapse.
"We're aware, of course, that when there's a transition, that can cause economic dislocation, if there's nothing to replace it," Mr. Varilek said. With the kind of investments the state is making in Becker, "all of a sudden the clean energy transition looks a lot more palatable."
Most residents have resolved that the future has taken root in Becker, where a Dairy Queen arrived a year ago and a more hipster-style coffee shop and bar, Dueling Brews, has become a local gathering place.
One of the coal plant's three coal units shut down at the end of last year. Xcel Energy plans to close the others in 2026 and 2030, adding to the decline not only in coal but in fossil fuels in general. (Some of the buildings are expected to be repurposed for future clean energy projects.) In all, the company said, it has closed 24 of its 36 coal-fired power plant units across the country.
That sharply reduces coal consumption, as a single burner in a power plant like Sherco can consume as much as 120,000 pounds of coal per hour to heat water and produce steam for turbines to generate electricity.
Those closings contributed to a steep decline in electricity production from coal nationwide. By the end of last year, coal produced a little more than 16 percent of the nation's electricity, down from 52 percent in 1990, and natural gas provided about 43 percent of the country's power, according to data from the Energy Information Administration.
Campaigns like the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal plan highlighted the environmental and climate hazards posed by fossil fuels and other carbon-emitting resources.
Over the next several decades, solar power is expected to replace natural gas as the single largest source of electricity production, not just in Becker but across the United States - a position once held by coal-fired generators.
The transition away from black gold, as coal has been known, has been felt on both sides of the train tracks that divide Becker into residential on the north side and industrial on the south.
Train cars loaded with coal roll through town only half as much as they used to, but the utility maintains a stockpile visible in the town - a giant mound on the plant site, weighing 1.9 million tons - that can operate the plant for as long as 100 days, Xcel Energy said.

Becker is among a half-dozen areas eligible to apply for funding from a $4.75 million state program to assist with redevelopment efforts, attract new businesses and train workers for new jobs in the move away from coal.
In addition, state investments of more than $20 million into Becker will help bring a new industrial park that includes as many as three data centers. Some power plant workers plan to relocate to a nearby nuclear plant the utility owns.
But letting go of the operation where many have spent their entire careers creates a sense of anxiety, even for those who say they understand the need to move to clean energy.
"You don't want to see this place go," said Rob Miller, a journeyman who has worked at the Sherco plant for 20 years. "There's a lot of pride, blood, sweat that has gone in here. It's sad to see it coming to an end."
#61
As United Nations climate talks enter their final week in Azerbaijan and G20 leaders gather in Brazil, diplomats from Saudi Arabia, the world's top oil exporter, are working to foil any agreement that renews a pledge to transition away from fossil fuels, negotiators said.
"Maybe they've been emboldened by Trump's victory, but they are acting with abandon here," said Alden Meyer, senior associate with E3G, a London-based climate research organization, who is at the talks in Azerbaijan. "They're just being a wrecking ball."
Negotiators say it's part of a yearlong campaign by Saudi Arabia to stymie an agreement made last year by 200 nations to move away from oil, gas and coal, the burning of which is dangerously heating the planet.
Saudi Arabia was one of the signatories to that deal, but has been working ever since to bury that pledge and make sure it's not repeated in any new global agreements, according to five diplomats who requested anonymity to discuss the closed-door negotiations.
With varying degrees of success, the Saudis have opposed transition language in at least five U.N. resolutions this year, the diplomats said. The Saudis fought it at a United Nations nuclear conference, at a summit of small island nations, during discussions of a U.N. blueprint for tackling global challenges, at a biodiversity summit and at a meeting of the Group of 20 finance ministers in Washington in October, according to the diplomats.
Saudi government officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
The election of Donald J. Trump has cast a pall over the climate negotiations in Azerbaijan, known as COP29. Mr. Trump has promised to withdraw the United States from the global fight against climate change and increase the American production of fossil fuels, which is already at record levels. That may be emboldening Saudi officials at the current climate talks, analysts say. On Saturday, Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, the chairman of the board at Saudi Aramco, the state petroleum company, sat ringside with Mr. Trump at a U.F.C. fight in Madison Square Garden in New York City.
U.N. rules require that any agreement forged at climate summits be endorsed by all 198 participating nations. That means Saudi Arabia, or any other nation, can sink a deal.
Saudi Arabia isn't the only country resisting the promise of a global transition away from fossil fuels or slowing progress in Baku. Countries are supposed to set new financial goals to help developing countries address global warming, and there are deep divisions between rich and poor nations about how to move forward.
But diplomats inside the rooms in Baku said the current Saudi opposition was unlike anything they had seen. It is taking the form of procedural objections that have blocked almost every set of talks, whether on carbon markets, decarbonization, or scientific research. Saudi diplomats have blocked negotiating texts, some of which were years in the making, from being allowed to move forward and, in at least one case, flatly refused to join meetings.
In one forum where diplomats were discussing how to help countries decarbonize, a Saudi diplomat accused other countries of negotiating in bad faith and told negotiators that they would not join in further meetings this week, according to one person in the room who was taking notes.
Joanna Depledge, an expert on climate negotiations at the University of Cambridge who has written extensively about Saudi Arabia, called the government "blatant and brazen" in its opposition to action on climate change.
"Whereas the U.S. might disagree strongly on something, they are usually well argued with some legal justification," Ms. Depledge said. "But with the Saudis it's literally a flat 'no' with no attempt to really justify or listen, or it uses procedural arguments that waste time."
Saudi Arabia fought efforts at COP28 to agree to a phase out of fossil fuels using tactics like giving long speeches that ate up nearly all the allotted meeting times, and inserting words into draft agreements that were considered poison pills by other countries.
Eventually, under enormous pressure from small island nations and the host government, the United Arab Emirates, the Saudis acquiesced to language calling on nations to contribute to "transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems, in a just, orderly and equitable manner."
Almost immediately, Saudi Arabia appeared to work against the promise.
Days after the summit, the kingdom's energy minister, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, declared that nations had only agreed to an "à la carte menu." Posting the Dubai agreement on a faux French menu, he told attendees at a minerals conference in Riyadh that the section calling for a transition also asked nations to do several other things, like triple renewable energy, double energy efficiency measures and accelerate nuclear energy.
"What we have achieved is choices that people can pick," the prince said.
His speech kicked off a yearlong Saudi effort to make sure that the transition language did not find its way into any other forum.
When the International Atomic Energy Agency held a first-ever nuclear summit in Brussels in March, Saudi delegates sought to block any language about an energy transition, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.
During the same month, Amin Nasser, the head of Saudi Aramco, which is the world's biggest oil producer, told a gathering of the oil industry in Houston, "We should abandon the fantasy of phasing out oil and gas."
The Saudi delegation continued its efforts in May at a meeting of the fourth International Conference on Small Island Developing States, diplomats said. They were largely successful: The summit ended with a declaration that referenced the need to develop renewable energy but nothing about a transition away from fossil fuels.
At the Summit of the Future 2024, a high-level U.N. event in September in New York aimed at creating a global consensus on how to address issues like climate change and international security, the Saudi delegation was less effective. Over Saudi objections, the final pact called for movement away from fossil fuels.
But those present said the dispute was so fierce that, a month later when two countries at the Convention on Biological Diversity in Colombia tried to insert a provision linking fossil fuel emissions with biodiversity loss, few had the appetite for another fight. An energy transition never became part of the negotiating text, said Alex Rafalowicz, executive director of the Fossil Fuel Nonproliferation Treaty, a nonprofit group that works to persuade countries to phase out oil, gas, and coal. He said the Saudi opposition took place outside of public view.
Finally, in G20 meetings held in Washington in September, the Saudi team initially refused to support a task force on climate and finance if it included language on the fossil fuel transition.
Avinash Persaud, a climate adviser at the Inter-American Development Bank, said Saudi delegates at the G20 climate meeting argued that certain discussions about transitioning away from fossil fuels had to occur in other specific settings, not in the ones in which diplomats were negotiating at the time.
The final agreement "recalled" the fossil fuel transition but stopped short of endorsing it.
Mr. Rafalowicz said the repetition of agreements, like the transition away from fossil fuels, actually matters. Since climate deals are not legally binding, reinforcing agreements in other forums is the only way to cement countries' promises, he said.
"When they say something once that's an indication of direction," Mr. Rafalowicz said. "When it gets reaffirmed at higher political levels, then it becomes clear that's the standard and there's no going back."
#62
A factory making iconic French bistro glasses is idling its furnaces to offset soaring energy costs. Cities around France are turning off streetlamps and other outdoor lighting to curb electricity use. In Normandy, some schools will start heating classrooms by burning wood to conserve natural gas.
As Russia tightens its chokehold on Europe's energy supplies, France is embarking on its biggest energy conservation effort since the 1970s oil crisis. President Emmanuel Macron's government is calling on the French to prepare for a new era of energy "sobriety" to face down the threat of a hard winter, while reassuring households and businesses about the government's ability to protect them.
"We have been confronted with a series of crises, one more grave than the other," Mr. Macron said in a televised speech to the nation late last month. "The picture that I'm painting is one of the end of abundance," he added. "We have reached a tipping point."
The national effort calls for businesses and individuals to embrace energy conservation by increasing car-pooling, lowering thermostats and shutting off illuminated advertising signs at night - to name a few - or face the risk of rolling blackouts or energy rationing.
On Friday, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, the energy transition minister, sought to reassure wary citizens, saying the government would try to "avoid restrictive measures" over energy use in the peak winter cold season.
The government has been spending lavishly - over 26 billion euros ($26 billion) since Russia's invasion of Ukraine - to keep gas and electric bills affordable, and last week it announced that its cap on household energy bills would be extended until the end of the year. The moves to control energy costs, including the re-nationalization of the energy provider EDF, have helped give France one of the lowest inflation rates in Europe, at 6.5 percent. (The overall eurozone rate for August was 9.1 percent.)
But with food and fuel costs still straining French families, Prime Minister Élisabeth Borne has called on businesses to make the bulk of the nation's energy savings - fast. Companies will be required to cut their energy use by 10 percent or face enforced rationing of electricity and gas.
Businesses will have to appoint an "ambassador of energy sobriety" this month, and present blueprints to the government for cutting their electricity consumption.
France is hardly alone in scrambling to confront a severe energy crunch brought on by Russia's grinding invasion of Ukraine.
The apparent willingness of Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, to use energy as a weapon - last week Russia's state-owned gas company, Gazprom, halted gas supplies to France - has sent oil and gas prices to record highs.
Countries including France have increased reserves as Gazprom turns off the taps: This weekend, France's gas storage facilities were 92 percent full. Even so, energy bills for households and businesses have soared, prompting European governments to resort to a range of offsets that few would have thought possible before the war.
Germany, Europe's biggest user of Russian gas, reversed plans on Monday to shut down two of its three remaining nuclear power plants by the end of the year, and on Sunday announced a $65 billion aid package to ease the burden of high energy costs on citizens. Italy is looking to Algeria as a potential new supplier of natural gas to replace Russian fuel. In Spain, the government has begun a huge effort to improve energy efficiency in buildings and in industry.
France would seem to be less vulnerable than its neighbors: It boasts the biggest nuclear energy arsenal of any European Union country, and is one of the least reliant on Russian natural gas. But France faces an energy crisis of its own, as its nuclear industry addresses cracks, corrosion and other troubles that have forced EDF to temporarily shut down 32 of France's 56 nuclear reactors.
The outages at EDF, which is also Europe's biggest electricity exporter, have sent France's nuclear power output plunging to its lowest level in nearly three decades. In addition, France's worst drought in 30 years this summer has lowered river levels, cutting supplies of hydroelectric power.
Instead of pumping vast amounts of electricity to Britain, Italy and other European countries pivoting from Russian fuel, France now faces the unsettling prospect of initiating rolling blackouts in winter and having to import power or resort to coal-fired plants to meet its energy needs - scenarios the government is desperate to avoid.
The crunch is already starting to force temporary shutdowns at energy-intensive companies, including steel, chemical and glass makers. On Friday, wholesale electricity prices for 2023 in France set a record, surging past €1,000 per megawatt-hour. Many French companies and retailers buy their electricity with three-year contracts that are set to expire, meaning they will have to be renewed at peak prices.
Duralex International, the maker of classic bistro wine and water glasses, announced last week that it would put its furnaces on standby for at least four months starting in November and place its 250 employees on furlough to save energy and cash.
The company said it had been facing "for several months very unfavorable financial production conditions, solely linked to the price of energy," which exploded after the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
"Producing at the daily price energy rate would generate unsustainable losses," José-Luis Llacuna, president of Duralex, said in the statement, adding that he didn't expect the factory to restart until the second quarter of 2023.
At Cristal d'Arques, the French maker of elegant crystal wine goblets, 1,650 of the company's 5,000 employees will be put on partial furlough through year-end. Guillaume Rabel-Suquet, the communications director, told French television that the company's gas bill quadrupled from the end of last year, to €75 million, and could reach €260 million in 2023 if prices don't drop, making operations "economically unviable."
The government has tried to offset some, but not all, of the pain for companies, although it recently announced a special €3 billion fund to help businesses that can't pay their energy bills.
President Macron, who faced a stiff presidential election campaign in April that saw the far-right challenger, Marine Le Pen, gain ground by addressing French families' worries over purchasing power, has focused on shielding households from rising energy costs.
A 4 percent cap on increases to household electricity prices that began last winter will be extended until the end of the year, and will continue into 2023 for vulnerable families, France's finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, said last week. The price ceiling is a stark contrast to an 80 percent increase in energy bills that households in Britain are expected to face next month.
Without the cap, French inflation would be about three percentage points higher, the French statistics agency Insee said in a report issued Friday.
Nonetheless, French citizens will have to pull their weight, Ms. Borne cautioned. In recent days, the government issued announcements calling on the French to curb a range of activities, in hopes of collectively saving energy. Among them: refraining from running washers at night, keeping thermostats at 66 degrees Fahrenheit and increasing use of public transportation.
Towns and cities across the land were urged to double down on energy savings in almost any way they saw fit. Many municipalities outside Paris started closing swimming pools intermittently this summer to save money. Other cities are restricting public lighting, which can account for over 40 percent of electricity bills.
The town of Thouars in western France has been turning off streetlights from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. since June and plans to replace bulbs with LED lighting. Strasbourg, a mid-size city on the German border, will close museums two days a week instead of one.
In northern France, some high schools in Brittany will lower their thermostats, while the neighboring region of Normandy will experiment with using wood-burning furnaces for heat in some schools as an alternative to gas.
And businesses have until October to submit their plans for cutting electrical consumption by 10 percent.
"We need a radical change," Ms. Borne said. "Everyone must ask themselves what they can do to consume less."
#63
It wasn't long ago that big fossil fuel companies were making bold claims about their plans to embrace a low-carbon future. Yet over the past year, many of those companies have walked back those commitments as they reaped outsize profits and made ambitious plans to expand their production of oil and gas.
On Wednesday, Exxon Mobil signed a $60 billion deal to buy Pioneer Natural Resources, a company that made its fortune through fracking. The acquisition - Exxon's biggest in almost 25 years, and the biggest corporate purchase of 2023 - represents a very expensive bet that fossil fuels will remain a central part of the global economy for the foreseeable future.
"As the world looks to transition and find lower sources of affordable energy with lower emissions, fossil fuels oil and gas are going to continue to play a role over time," Exxon Mobil chief executive Darren Woods told CNBC. "That may diminish with time. The rate of that is, I think, not very clear at this stage. But it will be around for a long time."
Like it or not, Exxon's bet looks like a sound one. While wind turbines and solar panels are proliferating faster than many people realize, fossil fuel extraction is also expanding around the globe. Hundreds of new oil and gas projects have been approved in the past year.
In the United States, that includes headline-grabbing new projects like the Willow development in Alaska and the Mountain Valley Pipeline in West Virginia. In places like Qatar, Norway, Brazil, China and India, new oil, gas and coal projects are getting approved practically every week. The United Arab Emirates, which is hosting the United Nations climate negotiations next month, has said it would keep producing oil "as long as the market demands it."
Supply and demand
Scientists say that nations must stop approving new oil drilling and coal mining if the world has any hope of constraining global warming to relatively safe levels. But without a dramatic shift by governments and corporations around the world, the market will be demanding oil and gas for years to come.
The International Energy Agency notes that for decades now, "the share of fossil fuels in the global energy mix has been stubbornly high, at around 80 percent." The I.E.A. sees the beginnings of gradual decline, but estimates that fossil fuels will account for more than half of global energy production 20 years from now.
Volatile geopolitics are routinely cited as justification for continued fossil fuel production. Exxon reported a record profit of $56 billion last year thanks largely to the price spike caused by Russia's war in Ukraine. That cash can now be used to invest in Pioneer's shale oil fields in the Permian Basin, where fracking has turned the United States into the world's biggest oil producer.
Even if fewer fossil fuels are used for energy production, the booming petrochemical business could keep demand high. As my colleague Clifford Krauss reported, Exxon is a petrochemical powerhouse. It needs more oil and gas to turn into gasoline, diesel, plastics, liquefied natural gas, chemicals and other products.
"Fossil fuels are not ready to leave," said Jon Creyts, chief executive of RMI, a nonprofit organization that supports clean energy. "And they're going to continue to operate with full capital market support here for a while."
'Bound to the returns'
Fossil fuel companies, including Exxon, are optimistic about the promise of "advancements in technology" that could prevent carbon emissions from reaching the atmosphere or remove them once they are in the air. Yet this technology is currently prohibitively expensive, and while it might be effective at a small scale, it wouldn't be able to offset the enormous volume of emissions on the horizon.
What's more, there is no tax on carbon emissions, and no sign of the political will needed to enact one. That means that governments have no real way to financially penalize oil companies for their emissions.
Exxon is flush with cash and a record high stock price. But instead of investing in clean energy, it is choosing to produce more oil and gas. The ruthless logic of the marketplace is pushing Exxon and other big oil companies to double down on fossil fuels instead of investing in green technologies.
"They are absolutely bound to the returns," Creyts said. "They're bound to perform relative to market expectations. And any attempt to create a venture business that does not provide the returns that are expected as a large company gets penalized."
There will be grave implications for the planet, which has already warmed by about 1.2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels. This year is shaping up to be the hottest on record, with record heat on land and the ocean fueling extreme weather around the world.
The continued growth of emissions means that this warming trend is all but certain to continue. "We need to be ready for a hotter planet," Creyts said. "We need to be ready for tipping points to be crossed."
Can the World Bank help Africa?
For the first time in half a century, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are holding their annual meetings in Africa.
The arrival of officials from financial institutions from around the world in Marrakesh, Morocco, this week is part of an effort to give African countries a bigger voice in institutions that play a huge role in their economies. Both the I.M.F. and the World Bank are considering adding an extra seat for the continent on their boards.
But inclusion alone won't give African leaders what they desperately need as they try to build their economies and grapple with climate change: A way out of crippling debt that they owe to international lenders.
"Debt is one of the biggest topics at the annual meetings of the I.M.F. and the World Bank in Marrakesh this week," my colleague Alan Rappeport told me from Morocco. "It's been a brewing crisis for many of the world's poorest countries and there's been growing pressure on China, the world's largest creditor, to offer some relief by restructuring these loans."
African leaders have called for a pause in repayments because their debt burden has risen for reasons beyond their control, such as the aftershocks of the pandemic and rising food and fuel prices.
As Ajay Banga, the new head of the World Bank, tries to reshape the role of his institution to address climate change, he is finding that debt is a more complicated problem than ever. Countries owe to a more diverse set of creditors, including governments, multilateral institutions and private investors, and getting all of them to agree on a deal with a single country is hard. It took Zambia three years, and that was considered progress. This morning, China and Sri Lanka also announced a tentative agreement to restructure the debt that Sri Lanka owes to China's Export-Import Bank.
The impasse goes to the heart of why developing countries are the most impacted by climate change. It's not just that many are heating up faster than the world average. They also lack the financial resources to protect their citizens against climate-related disasters.
"Countries in the West often plead with us to invest in the kind of ambitious resilience projects we need to survive in a warming world," wrote William Ruto, president of Kenya, along with the heads of two multilateral institutions, in a Times Opinion essay this week. "But in Africa, we can't fix the climate issue unless we fix the debt issue."
Banga, who has only been on the job since May, says it will be a long road to solve the problem.
"I wish there was a magic wand that said, abracadabra, we'll just wipe the debt out of the system, but I don't think that is likely to happen," he said. "This is hard work, and it needs to be done the right way." - Manuela Andreoni
#64
One of the biggest obstacles to expanding clean energy in the United States is a lack of power lines. Building new transmission lines can take a decade or more because of permitting delays and local opposition. But there may be a faster, cheaper solution, according to two reports released Tuesday.
Replacing existing power lines with cables made from state-of-the-art materials could roughly double the capacity of the electric grid in many parts of the country, making room for much more wind and solar power.
This technique, known as "advanced reconductoring," is widely used in other countries. But many U.S. utilities have been slow to embrace it because of their unfamiliarity with the technology as well as regulatory and bureaucratic hurdles, researchers found.
"We were pretty astonished by how big of an increase in capacity you can get by reconductoring," said Amol Phadke, a senior scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, who contributed to one of the reports released Tuesday. Working with GridLab, a consulting firm, researchers from Berkeley looked at what would happen if advanced reconductoring were broadly adopted.
"It's not the only thing we need to do to upgrade the grid, but it can be a major part of the solution," Dr. Phadke said.
Today, most power lines consist of steel cores surrounded by strands of aluminum, a design that's been around for a century. In the 2000s, several companies developed cables that used smaller, lighter cores such as carbon fiber and that could hold more aluminum. These advanced cables can carry up to twice as much current as older models.
Replacing old lines can be done relatively quickly. In 2011, AEP, a utility in Texas, urgently needed to deliver more power to the Lower Rio Grande Valley to meet soaring population growth. It would have taken too long to acquire land and permits and to build towers for a new transmission line. Instead, AEP replaced 240 miles of wires on an existing line with advanced conductors, which took less than three years and increased the carrying capacity of the lines by 40 percent.
In many places, upgrading power lines with advanced conductors could nearly double the capacity of existing transmission corridors at less than half the cost of building new lines, researchers found. If utilities began deploying advanced conductors on a nationwide scale - replacing thousands of miles of wires - they could add four times as much transmission capacity by 2035 as they are currently on pace to do.
That would allow the use of much more solar and wind power from thousands of projects that have been proposed but can't move forward because local grids are too clogged to accommodate them.

Installing advanced conductors is a promising idea, but questions remain, including how much additional wind and solar power can be built near existing lines, said Shinjini Menon, the vice president of asset management and wildfire safety at Southern California Edison, one of the nation's largest utilities. Power companies would probably still need to build lots of new lines to reach more remote windy and sunny areas, she said.
"We agree that advanced conductors are going to be very, very useful," said Ms. Menon, whose company has already embarked on multiple reconductoring projects in California. "But how far can we take it? The jury's still out."
Experts broadly agree that the sluggish build-out of the electric grid is the Achilles' heel of the transition to cleaner energy. The Energy Department estimates that the nation's network of transmission lines may need to expand by two-thirds or more by 2035 to meet President Biden's goals to power the country with clean energy.
But building transmission lines has become a brutal slog, and it can take a decade or more for developers to site a new line through multiple counties, receive permission from a patchwork of different agencies and address lawsuits about spoiled views or damage to ecosystems. Last year, the United States added just 251 miles of high-voltage transmission lines, a number that has been declining for a decade.
The climate stakes are high. In 2022, Congress approved hundreds of billions of dollars for solar panels, wind turbines, electric vehicles and other nonpolluting technologies to tackle global warming as part of the Inflation Reduction Act. But if the United States can't add new transmission capacity more quickly, roughly half the emission reductions expected from that law may not materialize, researchers at the Princeton-led REPEAT Project found.
The difficulty of building new lines has led many energy experts and industry officials to explore ways to squeeze more out of the existing grid. That includes "grid-enhancing technologies" such as sensors that allow utilities to send more power through existing lines without overloading them and advanced controls that allow operators to ease congestion on the grid. Studies have found these techniques can increase grid capacity by 10 to 30 percent at a low cost.
Countries like Belgium and the Netherlands have been widely deploying advanced conductors in order to integrate more wind and solar power, said Emilia Chojkiewicz, one of the authors of the Berkeley report.
"We talked with the transmission system planners over there and they all said this is a no-brainer," Ms. Chojkiewicz said. "It's often difficult to get new rights of way for lines, and reconductoring is much faster."
If reconductoring is so effective, why don't more utilities in the United States do it? That question was the focus of the second report released Tuesday, by GridLab and Energy Innovation, a nonprofit organization.
One problem is the fragmented nature of America's electricity system, which is actually three grids run by 3,200 different utilities and a complex patchwork of regional planners and regulators. That means new technologies - which require careful study and worker retraining - sometimes spread more slowly than they do in countries with just a handful of grid operators.
"Many utilities are risk averse," said Dave Bryant, the chief technology officer for CTC Global, a leading manufacturer of advanced conductors that has projects in more than 60 countries.
There are also mismatched incentives, the report found. Because of the way in which utilities are compensated, they often have more financial incentive to build new lines rather than to upgrade existing equipment. Conversely, some regulators are wary of the higher upfront cost of advanced conductors - even if they pay for themselves over the long run. Many utilities also have little motivation to cooperate with one another on long-term transmission planning.
"The biggest barrier is that the industry and regulators are still caught in a short-term, reactive mind-set," said Casey Baker, a senior program manager at GridLab. "But now we're in an era where we need the grid to grow very quickly, and our existing processes haven't caught up with that reality."
That may be starting to change in some places. In Montana, Northwestern Energy recently replaced part of an aging line with advanced conductors to reduce wildfire risk - the new line sagged less in the heat, making it less likely to make contact with trees. Pleased with the results, Montana legislators passed a bill that would give utilities financial incentives to install advanced conductors. A bill in Virginia would require utilities to consider the technology.
With electricity demand beginning to surge for the first time in two decades because of new data centers, factories and electric vehicles, creating bottlenecks on the grid, many utilities are getting over their wariness about new technologies.
"We're seeing a lot more interest in grid-enhancing technologies, whether it's reconductoring or other options," said Pedro Pizarro, the president and chief executive of Edison International, a California power company, and the chairman of the Edison Electric Institute, a utility trade organization. "There's a sense of urgency."
#65
With South Africa enduring daily power outages of up to 10 hours, President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a nationwide "state of disaster" on Thursday to address an electricity crisis so dire that day-old chicks are freezing to death, supermarket owners are rushing to sell meat before it spoils and many businesses have been forced to shut down.
The blackouts are caused by an aging fleet of coal-fired power stations that the dysfunctional state power company, Eskom, is struggling to keep online. Power cuts have been a part of life in South Africa for nearly 16 years, but the past several months have been the darkest yet.
From large industries to mom-and-pop stores, many businesses have closed or laid off workers in a country where one in three people is already jobless. With the outages driving up the cost of doing business, prices for everyday goods have shot up, as has the frustration of a populace losing faith in the government.
"We are therefore declaring a national state of disaster to respond to the electricity crisis and its effect," Mr. Ramaphosa announced in his state-of-the-nation speech. "The people of South Africa want action; they want solutions."
The blackouts have consumed the president and his party, the African National Congress, which had promised to reinvigorate South Africa's collapsing economy.
Political opponents and civic organizations have staged large street protests and dragged the government to court for failing to uphold its constitutional mandate as the outages have interrupted trade, education and health care.
Despite the dramatic "disaster" declaration, effective immediately, Mr. Ramaphosa did not offer any new plan to end the crisis. He said that he was appointing a minister of electricity, and that the declaration would allow the government to accelerate power projects and exempt food producers and other critical industries from power cuts.
For all the political bluster, the crisis plays out in life's most mundane rituals, in places like Meyerton, a town 34 miles southwest of Johannesburg surrounded by farms and factories.
At Foodzone, a corner supermarket just off the main road, when the clock struck noon on a recent day, the music stopped abruptly, the refrigerators stopped humming and the fluorescent lights went dark.
"Oh, see, there it goes," said Karina da Silva, the store's co-owner.
It was the second power outage of the day, and the refrigerators were as warm as a cupboard. Ms. da Silva and her husband, Eddie da Silva, rifled through packs of sausages, chicken and burger patties, checking their expiration dates. Mr. da Silva fired up a generator to keep the cash registers going, and the supermarket's cooks fried up the thawing meat on a gas burner to sell at a discount to customers whose stoves at home would be useless during the outage. The store has taken most of its egg dishes off the menu.
"You don't want a rotten egg in your store," said Mr. da Silva, tapping his nose.
Laying off their already lean staff of 14 would make running the store impossible, and the da Silvas are not sure how they will survive.
"I don't think things are going to change for us; it's not going to get better," Ms. da Silva said.
Since 2007, power outages have become so common that Eskom, the national electricity supplier, has devised a schedule to cut the power to different neighborhoods at different times. It calls these periods of national frustration "loadshedding."
Eskom's troubles are the result of a century of poor management, experts on energy and economics said in interviews. During apartheid, the utility, which mostly supplied the country's white minority, subsidized the cost of electricity for big industries like mining, meaning that many lucrative companies did not pay their fair share.
That legacy of low tariffs continues to hamper Eskom's ability to cover basic costs like maintenance, said Jesse Burton, a researcher in the Energy Systems Research Group at the University of Cape Town.
When the A.N.C. came to power in 1994, it failed to expand the utility at a time when the fleet began to buckle under growing demand and shrinking revenue. Corruption and incompetence in the construction of new power plants only made things worse. Mismanagement in successive presidential administrations hobbled Eskom until it collapsed.
"It's institutional failure at every level," said Ms. Burton. "They're in a debt spiral, and they're in a maintenance spiral."
Since taking office five years ago, Mr. Ramaphosa created a broad-reaching strategy to save Eskom. It included a plan to fix existing power stations, introduce renewable energy and allow private companies to produce power.
But the plan has produced few visible results. Those charged with solving the problem are bitterly divided. Gwede Mantashe, South Africa's energy minister and one of Mr. Ramaphosa's top lieutenants in the A.N.C., accused Andre de Ruyter, the chief executive of Eskom, in December of trying to undermine the A.N.C.-led government.
Mr. de Ruyter, tapped by Mr. Ramaphosa to save Eskom, quit a week later. He said in an interview with The Financial Times that someone had tried to assassinate him by lacing his coffee with cyanide. Eskom declined to comment on the allegation, and Mr. de Ruyter did not respond to a message seeking comment.
The fatal flaw in Mr. Ramaphosa's effort to rescue Eskom is that he has tried to do too many things at once, said Khaya Sithole, an economic analyst in Johannesburg. His plan, like those of previous administrations, failed to focus on the fundamental challenge: maintenance.
"Maintenance does not amount to a new project, so if it's not a new project, you're not going to have a P.R. exercise where you're cutting a ribbon," Mr. Sithole said.
Analysts say that solving the energy crisis would require bold measures, like going into debt or putting in place a tiered tariff system in which the poor are subsidized while big companies pay more.
"The people who will suffer most acutely from all of these problems are the poor and the marginalized, and that's where the seeds of a social revolution are going to be planted," said Mr. Sithole.
The power crisis has created some winners, though. During outages, copper thieves have ripped out wiring to sell, leaving neighborhoods without power for days. In Meyerton, a general supply store is trying to capitalize on the need for alternative energy sources by selling solar panels alongside dog food and laundry detergent.
Still, there is mostly suffering.
The prolonged power outages are threatening the food supply. The South African Poultry Association and other agricultural groups lobbied the government to exempt them from loadshedding, said Izaak Breitenbach, head of the association.
In December, KFC announced that it was temporarily closing some of its stores because of a chicken shortage. The price of chicken in stores has increased, along with eggs and other food. Public attention turned to farms when images of hundreds of dead birds began to circulate in the local news and on social media.
With heaters going out during power cuts, some chicks are freezing.
On a small farm outside Meyerton recently, Dawit Goji picked up two lifeless chicks in a pen inside a concrete building, shooing away the hundreds that were chirping around them. The power had gone out early that morning, and a crush of chicks stampeded into a corner of the building in an effort to stay warm.
Mr. Goji, who is farming chickens for the first time this year, bent over a chick lying on its side.
"He's about to go," Mr. Goji said, stroking the chick.
#66
Shimmering in the desert is a futuristic research center with an urgent mission: Make Saudi Arabia's oil-based economy greener, and quickly. The goal is to rapidly build more solar panels and expand electric-car use so the kingdom eventually burns far less oil.
But Saudi Arabia has a far different vision for the rest of the world. A major reason it wants to burn less oil at home is to free up even more to sell abroad. It's just one aspect of the kingdom's aggressive long-term strategy to keep the world hooked on oil for decades to come and remain the biggest supplier as rivals slip away.
In recent days, Saudi representatives pushed at the United Nations global climate summit in Egypt to block a call for the world to burn less oil, according to two people present at the meeting, saying that the summit's final statement "should not mention fossil fuels." The effort prevailed: After objections from Saudi Arabia and a few other oil producers, the statement failed to include a call for nations to phase out fossil fuels.
The kingdom's plan for keeping oil at the center of the global economy is playing out around the world in Saudi financial and diplomatic activities, as well as in the realms of research, technology and even education. It is a strategy at odds with the scientific consensus that the world must swiftly move away from fossil fuels, including oil and gas, to avoid the worst consequences of global warming.
The dissonance cuts to the heart of the Saudi kingdom. The government-controlled oil company, Saudi Aramco, already produces one out of every 10 of the world's barrels of oil and envisions a world where it will be selling even more. Yet climate change and rising temperatures are already threatening life in the desert kingdom like few other places in the world.
Saudi Aramco has become a prolific funder of research into critical energy issues, financing almost 500 studies over the past five years, including research aimed at keeping gasoline cars competitive or casting doubt on electric vehicles, according to the Crossref database, which tracks academic publications. Aramco has collaborated with the United States Department of Energy on high-profile research projects including a six-year effort to develop more efficient gasoline and engines, as well as studies on enhanced oil recovery and other methods to bolster oil production.
Aramco also runs a global network of research centers including a lab near Detroit where it is developing a mobile "carbon capture" device - equipment designed to be attached to a gasoline-burning car, trapping greenhouse gases before they escape the tailpipe. More widely, Saudi Arabia has poured $2.5 billion into American universities over the past decade, making the kingdom one of the nation's top contributors to higher education.
Saudi interests have spent close to $140 million since 2016 on lobbyists and others to influence American policy and public opinion, making it one of the top countries spending on U.S. lobbying, according to disclosures to the Department of Justice tallied by the Center for Responsive Politics.
Much of that has focused on bolstering the kingdom's overall image, particularly after the murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018 by Saudi operatives. But the Saudi effort has also extended to building alliances in American Corn Belt states that produce ethanol - a product also threatened by electric cars.
Behind closed doors at global climate talks, the Saudis have worked to obstruct climate action and research, in particular objecting to calls for a rapid phaseout of fossil fuels. In March, at a United Nations meeting with climate scientists, Saudi Arabia, together with Russia, pushed to delete a reference to "human-induced climate change" from an official document, in effect disputing the scientifically established fact that the burning of fossil fuels by humans is the main driver of the climate crisis.
"People would like us to give up on investment in hydrocarbons. But no," said Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco's chief executive, because such a move would only wreak havoc with oil markets. The bigger threat was the "lack of investment in oil and gas," he said.
In a statement, the Saudi Ministry of Energy said it expected that hydrocarbons such as oil, gas and coal would "continue to be an essential part of the global energy mix for decades," but at the same time the kingdom had "made significant investments in measures to combat climate change." The statement added, "Far from blocking progress at climate change talks, Saudi Arabia has long played a major role" in negotiations as well as in oil and gas industry groups working to lower emissions.
Saudi Arabia has said it supports the Paris climate agreement, which aims to prevent global temperatures from rising 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, and intends to generate half its electricity from renewables by 2030. The kingdom also plans to plant 10 billion trees in the coming decades, and is building Neom, a futuristic carbon-free city that features speedy public transit, vertical farms and a ski resort.
And Saudi Arabia is hedging its bets. The government has invested in Lucid, the American electric vehicle company, and recently said it would form its own electric vehicle company, Ceer. It is investing in hydrogen, a cleaner alternative to oil and gas.
Still, the green transition at home has been slow. Saudi Arabia still generates less than 1 percent of its electricity from renewables, and it isn't clear how it plans to plant billions of trees in one of the world's driest regions.
All the while, the climate threat is getting harder to ignore. At current rates, human survival in the region will be impossible without continuous access to air-conditioning, researchers said last year.
Among researchers at the King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center, a space station-like compound powered by 20,000 solar panels where discussion focuses on solar and wind projects or technologies like carbon capture, the more immediate trade-off is clear.
"If we keep consuming our own oil," said Anvita Arora, who directs the center's transport team, "we won't have any oil left to sell."
Saudis and the Corn Belt
In early 2020, Rob Port, who hosts the podcast "Plain Talk" on politics and current events in North Dakota, got a call from people representing the Saudi Embassy. Would he be interested in interviewing a Saudi spokesman about oil markets?
The call came from Dan Lederman at the LS2 group, a lobbying agency in Iowa that has also worked for agricultural and ethanol groups, and one of the few lobbying firms that stuck with the Saudis as others cut ties after the Khashoggi murder.
In May of that year, Fahad Nazer, a Saudi Embassy spokesman, appeared on Mr. Port's podcast. "They were talking about how they have the same interests we do," Mr. Port said, particularly an interest in "a thriving global oil market."
That outreach was part of a major effort by LS2group, on behalf of the kingdom, that has reached states including the Dakotas, Texas, Iowa and Ohio. For a retainer of more than $125,000 a month, LS2group targeted local radio hosts, academics, event planners, sports-industry officials, a former football player and a ski and snowboard club owner, according to filings with the Justice Department.
Much of that campaign has been on general topics, like the history of close relations with the United States. However, states like Iowa, the nation's top ethanol producer, could be fertile ground for the Saudis' view on electric vehicles, said Jeff M. Angelo, a former Iowa state senator who now hosts a talk show and was approached by Saudi representatives.
"Ethanol producers here in Iowa are saying the same thing: 'Isn't it terrible that the Biden administration is forcing you to buy an electric car when we could be producing biofuels right here in Iowa, and making money, and supporting our farmers, and being energy independent?'" he said.
Another facet in Saudi Aramco's effort to perpetuate gasoline cars is the research center near Detroit. There, researchers are working on an innovative device. Attached to a car, it would suck some of the planet-warming carbon dioxide from the exhaust before it can rise into the atmosphere and warm the world.
The prototype, developed by an Aramco lab, traps only a portion of emissions. But it is part of an effort to keep gasoline cars competitive. Transportation uses two-thirds of the world's petroleum, so any shift away from gasoline vehicles would greatly eat into oil demand.
It is a shift that Aramco does not want to see.
"Are electric vehicles going to doom oil?" Khalid A. Al-Falih, Saudi Arabia's minister of investment and former chairman of Saudi Aramco, said at an energy forum in 2019. "The answer is no."
Saudi Aramco has teamed up with major automakers, like Hyundai, to develop an "ultra lean-burn" fuel for hybrid gas-electric vehicles that would still use petroleum. And some Saudi funded research throws doubt on electric vehicles.
In June, the Department of Energy also released the findings of its six-year initiative to research cleaner gasoline engines and fuels, which said that gasoline cars "will dominate new vehicle sales for decades." Aramco and the department have also collaborated on technical papers on methods to increase the flow of oil from wells.
Sequel to 'La La Land'
Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, Saudi Arabia's energy minister, was incredulous. The International Energy Agency, set up a half-century ago to ensure the security of global energy supplies, had just sounded oil's death knell: It said the world would need to immediately stop approving new oil and gas fields, and to quickly phase out gasoline vehicles, to avert the worst effects of climate change.
Prince Abdulaziz compared that notion to a Hollywood movie. "It's a sequel to 'La La Land,'" he quipped at a news conference.
Saudi Arabia continues to explore for oil and gas. It pumps oil at an extremely low price of about $7.50 a barrel, beating almost every major rival. Compared to fracking in the United States, for example, and the extensive flaring of methane that entails, Saudi production is also cleaner than competitors.
Last year, Saudi Arabia joined the United States, Canada, Norway and Qatar on a plan to further reduce drilling emissions. Saudi Aramco said last year it would reach "net zero" by 2050, essentially pledging to stop adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere from oil extraction and production. However, that pledge excludes oil's main source of planet-warming emissions, those produced by burning it.
"They see that as an advantage. They think that if buyers start discriminating between dirtier barrels and cleaner barrels, Saudi Arabia looks a lot better than oil produced in the Permian Basin in the United States" or other places, said Ben Cahill, senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
Saudi officials say that a rapid transition to renewables and to cleaner electric vehicles would bring economic chaos, a view they say has been vindicated by the recent turmoil in the global energy market amid a supply shortfall and surging prices.
"Adopting unrealistic policies to reduce emissions by excluding main sources of energy will lead in coming years to unprecedented inflation and an increase in energy prices, and rising unemployment and a worsening of serious social and security problems," Saudi Arabia's crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, said in July at a United States-Arab summit in Jeddah.
Saudi Arabia's strategy is playing out at global climate talks.
Back in March, when, Saudi Arabia and Russia pushed to delete a reference to "human-induced climate change" from a policy document at a United Nations meeting, Valérie Masson-Delmotte, a French climate scientist leading the session, fought back and won.
"It is unequivocal that human influence has warmed the climate," she later said. "This is the reason why I took the floor to argue."
The Saudi intervention was the latest example of what other negotiators describe as a yearslong effort to slow progress by homing in on scientific uncertainties, downplaying the consequences, emphasizing the costs of climate action and delaying negotiations on procedural points.
Last year, Saudi Arabia successfully helped strike a sentence from a United Nations report that called for an active phaseout of fossil fuels. The statement "limits options for decision makers," a Saudi adviser to the kingdom's minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources said, according to documents leaked by the environmental group Greenpeace. "Omit the sentence."
"They have a strategic agenda," said Saleemul Huq, director of the International Center for Climate Change and Development in Bangladesh, "which is they don't want anything to happen."
At the latest round of talks in Egypt, Saudi Arabia highlighted an alternative vision, one that relies on large-scale carbon capture and storage. By 2027, the kingdom will build a facility capable of storing as much carbon dioxide as 2 million gasoline cars would emit in a year.
That would be a breakthrough, because carbon capture has yet to be proven at scale. Yet it was Saudi Arabia's way of preparing for a warming world, said Adel al-Jubeir, the kingdom's climate envoy. "In Saudi Arabia, we're committed to being ahead of it."
#67
As we report on climate change, it's all too easy to get caught up in the often troubling news.
Ferocious storms wreak havoc around the globe. Planet warming-emissions keep rising. Scientists warn of catastrophic tipping points.
Yet those headlines, crucially important as they are, often overshadow a different, equally important narrative: In recent years, the world has begun making rapid strides toward a cleaner, more resilient future, one in which modern society is powered with renewable energy, and the challenges of a hotter planet are not quite so perilous. This year alone, investments in clean energy will hit $2 trillion, according to the International Energy Agency.
Today, in an effort to highlight some of the progress underway, we're introducing a new regular feature in our coverage, The Climate Fix.
Each Thursday, as part of this newsletter, we'll focus on at least one new solution that has the potential to make a meaningful difference.
Sometimes, this might be a new technology that is making our energy system more efficient. Other weeks, it could be a policy change that is reshaping how people think about allocating money to climate adaptation. We also plan to cover nature-based solutions, emissions reductions plans, scientific breakthroughs and legal developments.
There's no shortage of material for us to write about. On every continent and in every conceivable industry, there are projects making our energy systems cleaner, our transportation systems more efficient and our agricultural systems more resilient. And our reporters are already in the field, tracking developments in geothermal energy, electric vehicles, rice farming, tree planting and much more. Just in the last few weeks, we've covered efforts to support nuclear energy, mine critical minerals and the impact of individual actions.
Beyond simply highlighting potentially game-changing solutions, The Climate Fix will bring a critical eye to them, evaluating what stands in the way of their widespread adoption, and peering ahead to understand what comes next.
The fund that wants to pay billions to protect forests - and generate returns
The problem: Every year over the last two decades, countries have been losing about nine million acres of tropical forest that are crucial to curbing climate change. Markets for selling carbon credits and other financial mechanisms have not significantly changed that trend globally.
The fix: Officials from Brazil are finalizing a proposal for a new financial product called the Tropical Forests Forever Facility, which aims to raise $125 billion from investors, countries and philanthropic organizations.
Its structure is unique: investors would loan the fund money, which would be paid back with interest. That money would then be invested in a diversified portfolio that would generate a return. Those excess returns would be used to pay roughly 70 developing countries $4 for every hectare of tropic forest they protect - including for forests that are not under immediate threat and which have historically received very little funding.
The structure means T.F.F.F. is more like a return-generating investment than traditional foreign aid, which the fund's creators think could help make it more palatable for countries and philanthropies.
"We have long talked about the advantages of conservation, but haven't been able to, let's say, translate that into concrete things people can feel," said Marina Silva, Brazil's environment minister.
The obstacles: Getting $125 billion in investments is an enormous challenge to say the least. If the T.F.F.F. were to raise $125 billion it would be, by some measures, the biggest climate fund in the world. There are also concerns about who would - or could - govern such a large financial portfolio. And then there's the risk of a financial crash, which could hurt the fund's abilities to pay countries for forest protection.
What's next: Officials in the U.S., Norway, France and other wealthy nations are evaluating the idea, as is the World Bank. The project, first presented at the global climate summit in Dubai, last November, is now in its final stages of design.

Under the plan's terms, countries with a lot of forest could get a significant boost in their budgets. Brazil, for example, would have been paid around $600 million this year if the fund was operational. - Manuela Andreoni
Turning rivers and oceans into giant sponges for carbon dioxide
The problem: To keep climate change at tolerable levels, countries will probably have to do more than just slash emissions - they'll also need to remove hundreds of billions of tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere this century.
The fix: In Nova Scotia, a startup called CarbonRun is grinding up limestone and sprinkling it into rivers poisoned by acid rain. Not only does this technique help local salmon populations, it also helps pull greenhouse gases from the sky.
Typically, rivers contain carbon dioxide that is constantly escaping into the air, where it traps heat and warms the planet. But adding limestone converts some of that carbon dioxide into a stable molecule that instead stays underwater and washes into the sea, where it should remain trapped for thousands of years.
The potential: There are hundreds of acidified rivers worldwide, and CarbonRun estimates that this process, known as river liming, could remove hundreds of millions of tons of carbon each year.
That might just be a start. If similar techniques could be done in the ocean - adding an alkaline substance like limestone or magnesium oxide to seawater, for example - humanity could potentially remove billions of tons each year.
So far, oceans have been tougher to work in. It's tricky to prove that adding alkalinity actually removes carbon in the turbulent high seas, and early research efforts have faced public backlash. Some scientists hope CarbonRun can be a pioneer, because it's easier to verify carbon removal happens in rivers, and river liming has been highly popular with local communities, since it can help revive devastated fisheries.
The obstacles: CarbonRun needs to cut costs, which means figuring out how to inexpensively mine and transport limestone. The company needs about two tons of rock for every ton of carbon it removes.
The company also needs buyers. Right now, only a handful of wealthy tech companies, like Microsoft and Stripe, are willing to pay startups to remove carbon from the air. Some experts say carbon removal should be considered a public good and governments should pay for it, but it's still early days.
One policy twist: Congress offers a generous tax credit - worth $180 per ton - for companies that remove carbon from the air using complex direct air capture machines, but that subsidy does not cover techniques that involve oceans or rivers.
What's next: CarbonRun has received $25 million to remove an initial 55,442 tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and is starting to scale up. Elsewhere, researchers in Halifax and Massachusetts are studying whether alkalinity enhancement can work in the oceans. - Brad Plumer
3 Things to Read on Hurricane Helene
How the North Carolina Legislature Left Homes Vulnerable to Helene: "Over the past 15 years, North Carolina lawmakers have rejected limits on construction on steep slopes, which might have reduced the number of homes lost to landslides; blocked a rule requiring homes to be elevated above the height of an expected flood; weakened protections for wetlands, increasing the risk of dangerous storm water runoff; and slowed the adoption of updated building codes, making it harder for the state to qualify for federal climate-resilience grants." - Christopher Flavelle
After Flooding, FEMA Aid Is Arriving. But Some Are Still on Their Own: "In the western mountains of North Carolina outside of Asheville, the small communities of Cruso and Canton, wrecked by Hurricane Helene, were not waiting for help from the state or the federal government."
Local restaurants were dispatching food deliveries to homes each evening. Some residents were driving excavators and tractors to clear debris from roads, while others were checking on who had power and who did not. No one was sure whether any disaster relief was coming anytime soon." - Emily Cochrane, J. David Goodman, Edgar Sandoval and Christopher Flavelle
After Helene, Lawyers Gear Up for Battles Over Who Should Pay: "As the colossal scale of damage wrought by Hurricane Helene becomes clear, legal aid groups are steeling themselves for yearslong battles to help people rebuild their lives and homes.
"It's going to be a massive effort," said Alicia Edwards, who directs the Disaster Relief Project for Legal Aid of North Carolina, which serves low-income clients.
They're mobilizing to help people navigate a maze of post-disaster bureaucracy - fights with landlords, insurers, contractors and even federal relief agencies themselves. But first, legal groups in the area need to account for their own people." - Karen Zraick
#68
If you wanted to tell the story of how the United States became one the world's largest exporters of fossil fuels, you could start in the Middle Devonian period, around 400 million years ago, when a warm inland sea dense with primitive aquatic organisms covered parts of the northeastern United States and Appalachia; you could explain that as these creatures lived, reproduced and died, their remains settled on the ocean floor and were compressed beneath layers of sedimentary rock, until eventually they transformed into a gas trapped thousands of feet below what is now Pennsylvania.
Or you could start with the murder of Nicole Brown Simpson.
On June 12, 1994, Simpson ate dinner with some family members at an Italian restaurant called Mezzaluna in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles. Simpson's mother left her glasses there, so a waiter from the restaurant, Ron Goldman, went to Simpson's home to return them. Shortly after midnight, Goldman was found dead with Simpson outside her condo. In the aftermath of the murders, reporters and photographers descended on Mezzaluna, followed by buses full of gawking tourists. People walked in to pester employees for details about Simpson's final evening, even asking waiters what she ordered for her last supper (apparently rigatoni). An owner of the restaurant, a Lebanese American entrepreneur named Charif Souki, was disgusted by the media frenzy - "the morbid curiosity, the lack of taste and decency of people, was pretty astonishing," he would say later. He decided to sell Mezzaluna and went on to try his hand at something new. After some deliberating, he settled on the oil-and-gas industry.
With a mop of unkempt hair and a penchant for elegant double-breasted suits, Souki didn't look the part of a Houston wildcatter. He also didn't know anything about drilling for oil or gas. But he did have a thick Rolodex from his posh Beirut upbringing, his days as an investment banker and his tenure as restaurateur to the stars. Why not raise a little money and give it a try? The infrastructure that moved fossil fuels around and converted them into energy was unfathomably complex, but the people in the business did something relatively simple: They borrowed money, dug up fuel and tried to sell it. That didn't sound so hard to Souki.
At the turn of the century, growth in the American energy sector had leveled off. Major oil producers like Exxon Mobil and Chevron had staked out the Gulf of Mexico for almost all the oil and natural gas it could yield, and there didn't seem to be an obvious next place to drill, so there wasn't much new money flowing in. In fact, some experts and commentators were worried that the United States would struggle to find enough oil and gas to meet rising demand. Buying more oil would be easy enough, because millions of barrels of crude moved all around the world every day on tanker ships, but natural gas was different. The United States was already importing around one-fifth of its annual consumption, mostly from Canada, and the pipelines could carry only so much. Unless the United States could find more gas within its own borders, the price of the fuel would skyrocket.
There is another way to move natural gas around, though. If you cool it down to minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit, it transforms into a liquid. This liquefied natural gas - L.N.G. for short - takes up about one six-hundredth of the space that regular gas does, which means you can load it onto tanker ships and send it across the ocean. The United States had never had much need to import liquefied natural gas before, but Souki figured that rising demand would soon justify the costs. He had already built a small energy company called Cheniere, part of an unsuccessful attempt to find new oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico, and he decided to put his chips on L.N.G. He called friends from his investment-banking days and pitched them on a solution to America's energy woes: a gas-processing plant that could "regasify" L.N.G. as it arrived from countries like Qatar, then pump it into domestic pipelines. A lot of people thought he was crazy, but eventually he found the money, and it wasn't long before he identified a site for the $2 billion facility on a swampy section of the Louisiana-Texas border, not far from a fishing community called Sabine Pass.
The only problem was that he was completely wrong. Around 2007, just as his terminal was nearing completion, a group of energy moguls made a series of breakthroughs in a new method for extracting gas from deep layers of landlocked shale. Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, had the potential to unlock enough gas to satisfy American energy demand for generations and turn the nation into the world's largest producer of oil and gas. It also made Souki's import terminal virtually worthless. In his book "The Frackers," the reporter Gregory Zuckerman later recounted how Souki looked out at the crowd during the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Sabine Pass facility only to see his investors and supporters staring at their BlackBerrys. They were watching Cheniere's stock price plummet in real time.
The only way for Souki to save the investment was to turn the facility around, reconfiguring it to liquefy the natural gas from fracking and prepare it for shipping. This was not a matter of flipping a switch. Condensing natural gas into a liquid is much more complicated and energy-intensive than converting liquid back to gas, and retrofitting the terminal required Souki to raise an astonishing $20 billion from bankers and investors, many of whom had been involved in the first round of financing and hadn't yet recouped their initial investment. Furthermore, the idea of an export terminal cut against most people's understanding of America's role in the global energy ecosystem. In the decades since the 1970s oil embargo, the United States had tried and failed to achieve energy independence. It seemed ludicrous to think that the nation should now hawk natural gas to other countries when just a few years earlier it was scrambling to find enough of it. "This is somebody who enjoys being on a roller coaster," one oil analyst told a Times reporter in 2011, referring to Souki. "It is more likely to see snow in New York in July than to see exports of gas from L.N.G. terminals in the United States."
Souki pushed ahead, though, and soon Cheniere's gargantuan export facility was rising up out of the bayou, its hulking steel pipeline arrays and rotund storage tanks looming over the swampy water. Even before its first shipment left, it was clear that Souki had finally placed the right bet. Overseas demand for natural gas was only getting stronger as countries began to shift away from their reliance on coal power. European countries could get most of their gas by pipeline from Russia, but giant Asian economic powers like China, Japan and South Korea needed another way to import the fuel. When completed, Cheniere's export facility would be the only such facility in the mainland United States, giving Souki an effective monopoly on the market. In 2013, he became the nation's highest-paid chief executive, netting an annual compensation of $142 million.
"From here on," he told a Houston newspaper at the time, "it's either good or better."
The United States is now one of the largest exporters of liquefied natural gas, dominating the global market alongside countries like Qatar and Australia. As of April, the nation was shipping out around 12 billion cubic feet of liquefied gas per day, equivalent to the daily gas consumption of Britain. There are now seven active liquefaction terminals, and as many as a dozen more are in various stages of planning and construction from Brownsville, Texas, to Jacksonville, Fla. The United States has flooded the world with supply, helping to double the global volume of L.N.G. exports between 2015 and 2019. Japan and South Korea have built dozens of regasification terminals over the past decade, and China has quintupled its natural-gas imports over the same period. Natural gas has emerged as a kind of Goldilocks fuel for power generation: less polluting than coal and less disruptive than switching to renewables. In other words, it's the best of the worst.

Gas is also the most recent arrival to the world's energy markets. Like its elder siblings coal and oil, it forms over tens of millions of years under the surface of the earth, but unlike these fuels, natural gas is mostly methane, which contains fewer atoms of carbon than the molecules that make up oil and coal. Burning it releases less carbon dioxide into the air as a result. To the extent that we replace coal power with gas power, we reduce carbon emissions by about half. This is already happening in the United States, where power-sector emissions fell by about one-third from to 2005 to 2019 as a result of coal-to-gas switching, and in China, where a state-led program to phase out coal has improved air quality in Beijing.
In the early 2000s, gas producers and energy-friendly politicians pointed to the relatively low carbon profile of gas as evidence that it could serve as a "bridge fuel" that could fulfill the world's energy needs while we transition from fossil fuels to renewables like solar and wind. Souki makes another moral pitch for liquefied natural gas, which is that it can also displace fuels in the developing world that pose more immediate health dangers. "People in Africa die from indoor pollution because they use wood and cardboard to prepare their meals," Souki told me. "There are people in India that die of outdoor pollution." There, dozens of coal-fired plants operate 24 hours a day, blackening the skies over New Delhi and Mumbai, leading to almost 80,000 premature deaths per year, according to one analysis. "So if you restrain or restrict energy to the people who need it, you're killing them."
This is a somewhat unorthodox pitch for a fossil-fuel tycoon to make, but Souki has never been an ordinary tycoon. He is as easy to find in Aspen, Colo., as he is in Houston; he frequently talks to reporters and is frank about climate change. In 2012, as Exxon Mobil's chief executive, Rex Tillerson, was calling environmental groups "manufacturers of fear" about global warming, Souki was declaring his support for a carbon tax. As the rest of the world has sought gas as a substitute for coal, the American L.N.G. industry has begun to position itself as a purveyor of clean energy. Cheniere, for example, hired one of President Barack Obama's climate advisers, Heather Zichal, to serve on its board of directors. A former senior vice president of the company was a deputy assistant energy secretary in the Obama administration; its vice president for public affairs used to work for Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, a noted climate hawk.
One wrinkle in the bridge-fuel argument, though, is that unburned methane itself is also a greenhouse gas - in fact, during the first 20 years after its release, it is more than 80 times as powerful as carbon dioxide at warming the climate. You don't have to be a chemistry professor to understand the conundrum. If you can get the gas out of the ground and into a power plant without letting it leak, it releases less carbon than coal or oil. If you let too much of it escape into the atmosphere while producing it, though, you might damage the climate more than if you just left it in the ground and burned coal instead.
Methane leaks are possible at almost every point in the supply chain. The point of production carries the biggest risk, when frackers push the gas out of the ground and shove it into pipelines. Still, leaks can also happen as the fracked gas travels through hundreds of miles of pipeline on its way to the Gulf of Mexico: In January, a satellite spotted a large methane plume that seemed to be emanating from a cluster of pipelines in central Louisiana. There's also the potential for methane to escape at the liquefaction facilities themselves. An export plant in Louisiana owned by a company called Venture Global leaked almost 100 tons of natural gas over the course of two days in January. The methane involved had the potential to warm the earth roughly as much as 1,000 cars do over an entire year.
Critics also say the facilities pose significant risks for those who live near them. In June, an export facility in Freeport, Texas, had a leak that resulted in a "vapor cloud" of natural gas that exploded in the open air, an accident that is expected to put the plant out of commission for three months. These vapor-cloud explosions have occurred at a few oil facilities in recent years, and safety experts have expressed concern about the potential for even larger blasts at liquefaction plants. Souki has been frank about the nastiness of the business that has made him so wealthy too: "I wouldn't want an L.N.G. terminal next to my home," he told Forbes in 2005.
Nevertheless, the growing demand abroad for American gas has driven a rapid expansion of L.N.G. export infrastructure in the United States, which has rewritten the rules for the global energy marketplace. For a long time, natural gas was burned close to where it was produced, but the explosive growth of the L.N.G. industry has turned the fuel into a commodity like oil, something that almost every country needs but that comes from only a select group. The countries that control the largest gas reserves also control whether hundreds of millions of people can keep their lights on and their furnaces lit. The geopolitical significance of this fact has become startlingly clear over the last few months. The Russian invasion of Ukraine sent global energy markets into turmoil overnight, severing a link between the powerhouse economies of the West and one of the world's main suppliers of oil and gas. It was easy enough for countries like Germany and Britain to agree that they would give up Russian oil, because they could buy oil on tankers coming from anywhere, but finding more gas was not so simple. Almost half the continent's supply came from Russian pipelines, and European nations couldn't simply stop burning gas - not if they wanted to keep the lights on.
The United States wasted no time in positioning itself as a kind of white knight for Europe's energy needs. As countries like Germany and Italy scrambled to find enough gas for next winter, the Biden administration promised to fill about one-third of the threatened Russian supply. The White House didn't frame this rescue mission in climate terms, but selling gas to Europe is arguably one of the most significant climate policies enacted by the Biden administration. The substitute gas would keep European economies from falling back on coal, but it could also ease the pressure on governments to further build out renewable energy sources like solar and wind. Back in the United States, meanwhile, it would make gas companies very wealthy, even as the rapid pace of L.N.G. exports drove up domestic natural-gas prices and raised American energy bills.
Even though it was Souki's audacious bet that helped create the L.N.G. boom, he may not end up benefiting from the crisis brought about by the war in Ukraine. That's because, at least for the moment, he doesn't actually own a liquefaction facility. In late 2015, just two months before the first gas shipment left Cheniere's plant in Sabine Pass, the company's board ousted him. The move came at the behest of the activist investor Carl Icahn, who had acquired a 13.8 percent stake in the company and thought Souki was taking it in the wrong direction. Souki wanted to use the proceeds from the first terminal to build another terminal in Southwestern Louisiana and expand into other ventures; Icahn wanted to cut spending and pay dividends. After a 10-hour private session that Souki was not invited to, the board sided with Icahn.
Souki retreated to Aspen, but his time in the wilderness didn't last very long. A few months later, he teamed up with another L.N.G. executive to found a new company called Tellurian and laid out plans to build an export terminal in Southwestern Louisiana - indeed on the very same site he had been pitching while still at Cheniere. He had a new financing scheme in mind, one that would entail greater risk but also yield mind-boggling profits: While Cheniere had charged frackers a fee to turn their gas into liquid, Souki wanted to start his own fracking operation, liquefy his own gas and sell it directly to overseas buyers.
'The world is screaming for natural gas, and I would like to be able to deliver natural gas as soon as possible.'
"I felt that there was one more chapter to be written," Souki told me. "The real business model would be to own the American molecules and sell them on the global market."
As he searched for financing, Souki turned himself into an online evangelist for liquefied natural gas, posting regular updates on YouTube ("Two minutes with Charif Souki on supporting our European friends"). These videos have helped attract many of the same retail investors who poured money into companies like GameStop and AMC, and who now believed that Tellurian's stock was underpriced relative to the potential payout. One video showed Souki flying in a helicopter over Louisiana, pointing out the vacant field where Tellurian's facility would someday stand. Getting it up and running was imperative: Tellurian had a productive fracking operation in the woods of the northern part of the state but still no way to bring the gas to market.
Souki still didn't when I met him in early February at Tellurian's office in downtown Houston. The company has a small space in a building owned by the oil supermajor TotalEnergies, and from the upper-story conference room, Souki and I could look out and see the distant expanse of the Texas City oil complex, a warren of storage tanks and refineries spewing bright orange flames. Despite all the hurdles Tellurian was facing, Souki had an unflappable air about him and spoke with the kind of blasé confidence one might expect from a man accustomed to raising billions of dollars for long-shot projects. He was wearing one of his trademark double-breasted suits, along with a pink tie, and as he talked he sometimes removed a retractable ballpoint pen from his jacket and fidgeted with its clicker.
I wondered why Souki was so determined to get back into the L.N.G. business. After all, he had already made a fortune, and the industry he started was reaching maturity. Tellurian was still several years and billions of dollars away from being able to profit off it again. Why didn't he just stay home in Aspen?
"The world is screaming for natural gas," he said, "and I would like to be able to deliver natural gas as soon as possible." There was already an energy shortage in Europe over the winter, a result of a fast pandemic rebound, and people in Britain were worried about paying their gas bills - how could he not want to supply them with more fuel? Moreover, he said, "the emerging countries are going to add two billion people, and their standards of living are improving all the time. They're not going to say, 'I don't want to live like you.'"
As Souki sees it, the need to provide the world with energy in the short term outweighs the long-term demand of acting on carbon emissions. The world may be facing energy and climate crises, he said, "but one is going to happen this month, and the other one is going to happen in 40 years." He added: "If you tell somebody, 'You are going to run out of electricity this month,' and then you talk to the same person about what's going to happen in 40 years, they will tell you, 'What do I care about 40 years from now?'"
Two weeks later, Russia invaded Ukraine. The booming American L.N.G. industry rushed in to fill the gap left by Russian gas, turning its focus from Asia to Europe. Cargoes that had already left American export facilities bound for Japan or China changed course and headed to France and the Netherlands, fetching multiple times the price they would have just days earlier. A few weeks after the invasion began, the United States and the European Commission announced a long-term agreement to help Europe free itself from Russian gas, with American producers promising to supply at least one-third of what Russia had once provided the continent. Bulgaria, Germany and Greece all raced to build new import terminals so they could accept American gas before winter, as Russia cut off gas deliveries to one country after another; eventually, Germany was moving to flip on old coal plants. Just a few months earlier, at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow, these same European governments had affirmed their intention to give up fossil fuels, but now they had to shelve those ambitions.
I met Souki again in April in New York, at the downtown offices of a media-strategy company. Souki was taking advantage of the chaos in energy markets to again make his moral case for sending fracked gas all over the globe: He was stopping in New York to talk to potential investors and develop a new media strategy for Tellurian before he went down to Washington to meet with policymakers and legislators. We huddled together at a conference table in the lobby.
"All of a sudden, Europe has put all of its climate aspiration on the back burner," he told me, reviewing the early events of the war. Countries like the Czech Republic, Italy and Romania were warning that they might have to reactivate their shuttered coal plants or extend the life spans of those that had been scheduled to close. "We're going to need gas," he said, "especially if you're serious about climate issues."
He was quick to clarify that this wasn't his concern. "As a company, I couldn't care less about the climate," he said. "Of course I care, OK? But my responsibility is not to care about the climate. My job is to make a product that people need and sell it to them at the cheapest possible price to me." This was not going to be very difficult, provided Souki could finish his new facility. By the summer, gas prices in Europe were six times as high as in the United States; once Souki's terminal was up and running, he would be able to reap the entirety of that price differential, a jaw-dropping arbitrage. Yet again, he would have proved everyone wrong.
Still, the facility in Louisiana would need to export gas for years to pay itself off, which meant that Tellurian would need to keep fracking more gas to supply it, and that people around the world would need to keep buying and burning that gas, dumping more methane and carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Souki's gamble depended on the energy transition moving at a very specific pace, neither too fast nor too slow - his customers were countries that wanted to move away from the dirtiest fuels but weren't ready or willing to shift toward altogether clean energy. For as long as the transition moved at this halting pace, it would be gamblers and tycoons like him who set the course of global climate policy, selling people the fuels they wanted for as long as they wanted them. Souki himself might have an exit strategy, but the industry he created would outlast him, spraying flames into the night sky for decades to come.
I asked Souki what he thought the long-term trajectory of the L.N.G. boom might be. The fuel might be necessary right now, but what about in 20, 30, 40 years? He was betting that the world wasn't ready to give up fossil fuels. But someday it would, and the facilities he built would be effectively useless. What would happen then?
He smirked and waved his hand, as if to swat the question away.
"I'll be dead," he said, "so it won't matter."
#69
Mexico is the world's 11th-largest oil producer. It has been gripped by a deadly heat wave. Now, it's elected as its president a woman with a rare pedigree: a left-of-center climate scientist with a doctorate in energy engineering named Claudia Sheinbaum.
Ms. Sheinbaum is no stranger to politics nor to environmental crises. She was mayor of Mexico City, a vibrant metropolitan area of 23 million that faces a dire water crisis. She helped write the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports, the sweeping United Nations documents that have warned the world about the hazards of burning fossil fuels.
Ms. Sheinbaum will have to balance numerous, sometimes contradictory, tests as she takes office. Federal budgets are tight. Energy demands are rising. Mexico's national oil company is heavily indebted. She'll face the challenges of poverty, migration, organized crime and relations with the next president of the United States.
It would be folly to predict what she will do, but it's worth looking at what she has said and done on energy and environmental issues so far in her career.
First, her record.
As mayor of Mexico City, she began electrifying the city's public bus fleet. She set up a huge rooftop solar array on the city's main wholesale market. She expanded bike lanes, making permanent several kilometers of pandemic-era pop-up paths.
She has been criticized by environmentalists for backing one of the country's most controversial infrastructure projects, the 1,500-kilometer so-called Maya Train corridor, which cuts across forests and archaeological sites to connect tourist sites like Cancún to rural areas on the Yucatán Peninsula.
As for Mexico's energy sector, Ms. Sheinbaum said on the campaign trail she wanted to expand renewable energy infrastructure, unlike her predecessor, Andrés Manuel López Obrador. But she also said she would continue to support the Mexican state-owned oil company, Petróleos Mexicanos, or Pemex, and keep it under state control.
Pemex produces just under 2 million barrels of oil a day. Ms. Sheinbaum has said she would maintain those levels, while also expanding the company's mission to include lithium production. Lithium is a key component in electric batteries and pivotal to the global transition to cleaner energy.
Mr. López Obrador has limited private investments in renewable energy projects, including from the United States, and if Ms. Sheinbaum were to continue that policy, that could significantly slow down the country's clean energy transition.
"Claudia is an environmental scientist and unlike her mentor, AMLO, believes in decarbonization and in boosting renewables," said Shannon O'Neil, a Mexico specialist at the Council on Foreign Relations, referring to Mr. López Obrador by his initials. "But she is also a statist, wanting Mexico's energy transition to be led and controlled by cash-strapped, state-owned enterprises."
Pemex is heavily indebted, and whether the government can continue to prop it up remains unclear. "The next president will need to find a solution to 'fix' the company's problems as its condition today is unsustainable," S&P Global, a commodities research firm, said in an analysis this year.

Ms. Sheinbaum will also have to weigh what role Mexico wants to play to further the ambitions of the United States to be the world's leading supplier of liquefied gas. U.S. gas companies are angling to build export terminals along the Mexican coast to ship gas to Asia. If they are all built, as planned, that would hugely expand the emissions of planet-heating greenhouse gases and, according to environmental campaigners, threaten sensitive ecosystems.
Among Ms. Sheinbaum's many published scholarly works are papers that examine how Mexico can make the energy transition from one that's based almost exclusively on fossil fuels to renewables like wind, solar and geothermal.
Her academic work also explores the social consequences. A 2015 paper, for instance, looked at the conflicts that erupted in the relatively poor and heavily Indigenous state of Oaxaca after a wind project came in. It recommended establishing national policy based on the feedback of local communities.
"Wind energy development in Mexico has been complex and contentious; the large increase of wind energy in Oaxaca has created social conflicts in Oaxaca, which even might stop further wind project development in the region," the paper said, adding that the case shows "the need for a national and regional policy."
Her work as president will have to consider similar trade-offs. Except they will not be academic.
#70
In April, Vice President Kamala Harris visited Qcells, a solar panel manufacturing facility in Dalton, Ga., to announce an early triumph of the Inflation Reduction Act: Summit Ridge Energy, one of the nation's largest developers of community solar projects, would purchase 2.5 million U.S.-made solar panels.
Subsidies under the new law brought the price in line with that of imported panels, allowing the companies to fight climate change and promote American manufacturing in one fell swoop.
A month later, the Treasury Department issued guidance that functionally would require the solar cells - not just the panels - to be made in the United States for Summit Ridge to have confidence that it will get its 10 percent tax credit on installations that use them. Qcells won't be able to produce cells until late 2024, sending Summit Ridge scrambling to find cheaper components for projects currently in its pipeline.
"There's not a single solar manufacturer who fully qualifies for this at this moment in time, which makes it difficult and is actually starting to cool investment," said Leslie Elder, Summit Ridge's vice president of political and regulatory affairs. "Now we have to re-evaluate based on what can pencil."
On paper, the Inflation Reduction Act is transformative for electricity generation in the United States.
The law offers tax credits that could cover up to 70 percent of a renewable energy project's cost if it checks several boxes meant to support American workers and communities. A new analysis finds that those incentives more than offset the additional expense associated with using domestically produced goods and paying prevailing wages.
But guidance rolling out from the Biden administration - presaging formal rules - has raised alarm among energy companies that some of the credits might be difficult if not impossible to use, at least in the near term. The resulting frustration is emblematic of the current stage of climate action: an eye-straining haze of technical rule-making that reflects a tension between urgency and ensuring that the benefits of the energy transition are widely shared.
Wally Adeyemo, the deputy secretary of the Treasury, expressed confidence that in combination, the rules would strike that balance.
"We have a great deal of clarity about the strategic objectives, and we're already seeing the impact of that in terms of the economy," Mr. Adeyemo said. "It isn't about any one rule. It's about an ecosystem of rules that have been created under the I.R.A. that put us in a position to go from a country that had underinvested in the clean energy transition to being at the head of the pack."
The analysis, overseen by professors at Princeton and Dartmouth experienced in modeling climate policy's effects, finds that the incentive aimed at U.S. manufacturers makes domestic solar panels more than 30 percent less costly to produce than imports. With incentives claimed by clean energy developers that meet labor standards and use domestic content, the total cost of generating utility-scale solar electricity could be lowered by 68 percent, and onshore wind energy by 77 percent.
The study was funded by the BlueGreen Alliance, a partnership of unions and environmental groups. The organization has championed elements of the Biden administration's climate agenda that support domestic manufacturing, particularly in places hurt by globalization, automation and the decline of fossil fuels.
"Until now, the moral case and the business case did not always align," said Ben Beachy, the organization's vice president for industrial policy. "The I.R.A. changes that by offering developers an airtight business case for supporting high-paying jobs and a stronger and fairer U.S. manufacturing base."
The impact of the climate law is already evident, with announcements of 47 new plants to make batteries, solar panels and wind turbines since it was passed, according to American Clean Power, a trade association. Other analyses, including a paper by economists and engineers at the Electric Power Research Institute, the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and the University of California, Berkeley, found that the law would encourage more low-emissions projects eligible for uncapped tax credits than anticipated, potentially making the costs to the government substantially higher than earlier estimates.
But the BlueGreen Alliance's study shows significant uncertainty about the impact of rising material costs as demand for domestically sourced aluminum, steel and concrete increases, and doesn't account for profits manufacturers might command before more competition enters the market. It also projects 1.6 million more jobs will be available in wind and solar energy by 2035 than if the I.R.A. hadn't passed - more than three times the current employment base - but does not model whether labor supply will measure up.
"I find some of their key results to be highly optimistic, and that they likely underestimate some of the economywide costs associated with this scale of clean energy deployment," said Daniel Raimi, a fellow at the think tank Resources for the Future who reviewed the analysis.
At the same time, clean energy companies are digesting the administration's guidance on how the tax credits will be allocated, and finding some unworkable in ways that may slow deployment.
Take the bonus of up to 20 percent for developers that locate projects in low-income communities (which is separate from a bonus of 10 percent for locating in areas struggling with the transition away from fossil fuels). The Treasury Department, wanting to ensure that credits give rise to projects that wouldn't otherwise happen, will award them only to projects not yet completed. Solar installers would have to sell the system and then wait to see if they got the credit before starting work.
"I think we will lose some development in low-income communities this year because of the way that credit has been constructed," said Sean Gallagher, a vice president for policy at the Solar Energy Industries Association. "Either the developer is going to absorb that difference, or they'll have to go back to the customer to renegotiate the price, or the project's not going to happen."
An even thornier issue is the extra 10 percent for using domestically manufactured components.
Manufacturers are concerned that while effectively requiring solar cells to be made in the United States to qualify for the credit, the Treasury Department did not require their foundational component - the wafer, a thin slice of silicon that conducts energy - to be domestically produced. That could allow Chinese factories to continue to dominate a key part of the supply chain.
"The prices they're ultimately getting from the developers are undermined because the Chinese wafer manufacturers can crash the prices," said Mike Carr, the executive director of the Solar Energy Manufacturers for America Coalition.
Developers are upset because receiving the credit will, in most cases, require a complex calculation of the cost of each component to reach the threshold of 40 percent U.S.-produced content, and manufacturers are loath to disclose sensitive pricing information. Many also expected a more gradual phase-in process that would allow some of the current U.S. factory output to qualify for the credit, while planning for more stringent requirements.
Brett Bouchy is the chief executive of Freedom Forever, a residential solar installation company that did more than $1 billion in business last year. He had planned to build a solar module and cell manufacturing plant in Arizona, which would cost $100 million and employ 1,000 people, to supply his own operations. After the guidance came out, he halted those plans - he couldn't be confident his panels would qualify for the domestic content credit on top of the 7 cents per watt available to manufacturers.
"We cannot make it work," Mr. Bouchy said. "There is no benefit, because that 7 cents is eaten up with increased U.S. labor costs. Why would you invest $100 million when you really can't get a return?"
Those who support the administration's approach emphasize that the bonus tax credits are just that: bonuses, not requirements, to offset costs associated with going the extra mile. Developers already get a 30 percent base incentive - and at least 10 years of certainty - for paying prevailing wages and employing apprentices, which most don't consider very difficult.
Todd Tucker, the director of industrial policy and trade at the Roosevelt Institute, said high standards were necessary to make investors confident that new U.S. factories would have enough orders to stay in business.
"Once you start indicating that you're going to allow some flexibility, that, by definition, softens the market signal," he said.
The Treasury Department is still taking comments on the rules for all of the credits, and industry trade associations are vying to change them. Even so, most companies say that the Inflation Reduction Act overall is a powerful force for decarbonization, and that companies have a strong incentive to seek every credit it allows.
"It's amazing how focusing this is for the mind, when people start throwing these kinds of dollars around," said Sheldon Kimber, the chief executive of Intersect Power, a clean energy developer. "We're being asked to do a hard thing, but there's a lot of money in it for us."
#71
When Royal Dutch Shell sold off its stake in the Umuechem oil field in Nigeria last year, it was, on paper, a step forward for the company's climate ambitions: Shell could clean up its holdings, raise money to invest in cleaner technologies, and move toward its goal of net zero emissions by 2050.
As soon as Shell left, however, the oil field underwent a change so significant it was detected from space: a surge in flaring, or the wasteful burning of excess gas in towering columns of smoke and fire. Flaring emits planet-warming greenhouse gases, as well as soot, into the atmosphere.
Around the world, many of the largest energy companies are expected to sell off more than $100 billion of oil fields and other polluting assets in an effort to cut their emissions and make progress toward their corporate climate goals. However, they frequently sell to buyers that disclose little about their operations, have made few or no pledges to combat climate change, and are committed to ramping up fossil fuel production.
New research to be released Tuesday showed that, of 3,000 oil and gas deals made between 2017 and 2021, more than twice as many involved assets moving from operators with net-zero commitments to those that didn't, than the reverse. That is raising concerns that the assets will continue to pollute, perhaps even at a greater rate, but away from the public eye.
"You can move your assets to another company, and move the emissions off your own books, but that doesn't equal any positive impact on the planet if it's done without any safeguards in place," said Andrew Baxter, who heads the energy transition team at the Environmental Defense Fund, which performed the analysis.
Transactions like these expose the messy underside of the global energy transition away from fossil fuels, a shift that is imperative to avoid the most catastrophic effects of climate change.
For the four years before the Umuechem sale in Nigeria, satellites had spotted no routine flaring from the field, which Shell, together with the European energy giants Total and Eni, operated in the Niger Delta. But immediately after those companies sold the field to a private-equity backed firm, Trans-Niger Oil & Gas, an operator with no stated net zero goals, levels of flaring quadrupled, according to data from the VIIRS satellite collected by EDF as part of the analysis. Trans-Niger said last year it intends to triple production at the field.
According to the EDF research, top buyers in recent years have included state-owned oil and gas corporations such as Indonesia's Pertamina, Qatar Energy and China's CNOOC, as well as Diversified Energy, an Alabama-based company that has amassed tens of thousands of aging oil and gas wells across Appalachia.
Other top buyers included a handful of less well-known companies. And in a sign of the difficulty of tracking these transactions, the acquirers in numerous other deals weren't known. Overall, the study showed that the number of transactions that took fossil-fuel assets from public to private ownership comprised the largest share of deals, exceeding the number of private-to-public transfers by 64 percent.
In response to questions Shell said it looked forward to seeing the full EDF report. The Dutch company has said that divestments "are a key part of our efforts to refresh and upgrade our portfolio" as it seeks to reach net zero emissions, which refers to a corporate pledge to not add more greenhouse gases to Earth's atmosphere than the amount it takes out.
Eni spokeswoman Marilia Cioni referred questions to the local operator, and added that it did not consider asset sales as a tool to reduce emissions. Total and Trans-Niger Oil & Gas didn't respond to requests for comment on Monday.
This phenomenon, where the production of emissions that drive climate change are transferred from one company to another, is also hindering the cleanup of fossil fuel infrastructure.
In July 2021, the oil and gas driller Apache, which had been struggling with its operations in Texas's vast Permian Basin, sold about 2,100 wells to a little-known Louisiana operating company, Slant Energy, according to state and federal filings analyzed by ESG Dynamics, a sustainability data firm.
Roughly 40 percent of those wells were inactive. Before Apache sold the lot, the Houston-based company had been plugging an average of 169 wells a year to prevent them from leaking toxic chemicals into groundwater or from emitting methane, a potent greenhouse gas, into the atmosphere. That pace would have meant Apache could finish plugging the backlog of inactive wells in about nine years.
Since Slant took over, it has plugged only two wells, according to the filings. At that pace, it would take 120 years to plug all of the current inactive wells.
The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that each inactive, unplugged well causes greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to between 17,000 to 50,000 miles driven by an average gasoline-powered passenger vehicle. There are already 1.6 million unplugged wells throughout the United States, according to industry tallies, and an increasing number of them are abandoned.
Slant spokesman Sean P. Gill said the numbers from EDF "did not appear to be accurate," without providing further details. Slant had only recently taken over those wells and "continues to evaluate the economic development of the assets in an environmentally responsible way," he added.
Apache said it wasn't valid to assume that a company purchasing its wells would have the same schedule for plugging them.
The concerns raised by emissions that are transferred to different companies also puts a renewed focus on global banking corporations that play a critical role in facilitating coal, oil and gas mergers, acquisitions and other transactions. Climate campaigners calling for divestment from fossil fuels have so far focused on banks' direct financing of fossil fuel projects. But the recent examples show their mergers-and-acquisitions business can also have significant climate consequences.
Shell, a publicly-traded company, said that it discloses emissions from both its operations and the oil and gas that it produces, has corporate targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and has committed to zero flaring across its operations. But when it sells an oil or gas field, those targets and commitments can fall away for that field.
The new owners of the Umuechem project have said they will focus instead on rapidly ramping up production, which can strain the oil field's facilities and require significant amounts of flaring. That's because rapidly increasing oil production often also releases more natural gas, overwhelming the field's ability to collect the additional gas.
As major oil and gas producers sell more fossil fuel assets, experts and campaigners say, companies and their bankers need to enter into contracts or agreements that commit the buyers to similar disclosures and emissions-reduction targets. And in the case of oil and gas wells and other assets nearing the end of their lives, they argue, corporations shouldn't be allowed to hand off cleanup responsibilities to operators that may not have the resources, or intent, to invest in the cleanup work.
Kathy Hipple, finance professor at the Bard MBA in Sustainability and senior research analyst at the Ohio River Valley Institute, said one solution would be for auditors or regulators to start scrutinizing every sale, and challenge a transaction if environmental or cleanup obligations or targets aren't accounted for.
She pointed to Diversified, an operator listed in London, that has become the largest owner of oil and gas wells in the United States in recent years by buying up aging wells, which Prof. Hipple said uses accounting methods that can potentially push cleanup costs far into the future. For example, Diversified has said that its wells will be productive through 2095, allowing it to delay its cleanup costs for decades.
Diversified said that its business model "takes often overlooked or neglected assets, optimizes production, improves environmental performance and responsibly retires" them. It said it aimed to achieve net-zero emissions in 2040.
#72
When President Biden signed the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, it was expected to set off a boom in renewable energy, with hefty tax breaks that would make solar and wind power cheaper than fossil fuels.
So far, however, that dream has only come partly true. Solar panel installations are indeed soaring to record highs in the United States, as are batteries that can store energy for later. But wind power has struggled, both on land and in the ocean.
The country is now adding less wind capacity each year than before the law was passed.
Some factors behind the wind industry's recent slowdown may be temporary, such as snarled supply chains. But wind power is also more vulnerable than solar power to many of the biggest logistical hurdles that hinder energy projects today: a lack of transmission lines, a lengthy permitting process and a growing backlash against new projects in many communities.
If wind power continues to stagnate, that could make the fight against global warming much harder, experts say. Many plans for quickly shifting the country away from fossil fuels envision a large expansion of both solar and wind, because the two sources generate electricity at different hours and can complement each other. A boom in solar power alone, which runs only in daytime, isn't enough.
Some of the early predictions that the Inflation Reduction Act would help slash U.S. greenhouse gas emissions roughly 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2030 depended on a rapid acceleration of both solar and wind power this decade. But it is now far less certain that will happen:
Solar is on pace to meet targets. Wind? Not so much.
"Right now, solar is pretty much in line" with what experts projected, said Trevor Houser, a partner at the Rhodium Group, a research firm that has tried to model the effects of the climate law. "But wind really needs to grow by quite a bit. Going forward, we're definitely much more concerned about wind."
Why Wind Power Is Struggling
Wind and solar power are often lumped together, but they have important differences that partly explain why one is slowing and the other is thriving right now.
For one, wind power is much more sensitive to location. Wind turbines in a gusty area can generate eight times as much electricity as turbines in an area with just half the breeze. For solar power, the difference between sunny spots and less sunny spots is considerably smaller. That means developers can't just build wind farms anywhere.
A lot more wind power is needed to reach U.S. climate goals, experts say, especially if the country wants to do it quickly and cheaply.
In the United States, the best places for wind tend to be in the blustery Midwest and Great Plains. But many areas are now crowded with turbines and existing electric grids are clogged, making it difficult to add more projects. Energy companies want to expand the grid's capacity to transport even more wind power to population centers, but getting permits for transmission lines and building them has become a brutal slog that can take more than a decade.
"Getting wind projects built is getting a lot harder," said Sandhya Ganapathy, chief executive of EDP Renewables North America, a leading wind and solar developer. "The low-hanging fruit, the easier access places are gone."
Because they can reach the height of skyscrapers, wind turbines are more noticeable than solar farms and often attract more intense opposition from local communities. In Idaho, the entire State Legislature has opposed a new wind farm that would be visible from a World War II historic site. A few years ago, hundreds of residents were arrested on Oahu, Hawaii, for blocking the construction of a relatively small wind project.
"We have not seen examples of people being willing to risk arrest to stop solar projects," said Matthew Eisenson, who tracks opposition to renewable energy at the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University.
Across the country, hundreds of local governments have restricted or banned wind or solar projects. If a county blocks a solar array, a developer might be able to move next door. But it's not always as easy to find a new location for wind farms.
Wind turbines are more visible than solar farms and often attract more intense opposition.
The wind industry has also been hampered by soaring equipment costs after the pandemic wrecked supply chains and inflation spiked. While those factors initially hurt solar, too, the solar industry has adjusted much faster, with China nearly doubling its manufacturing capacity for panels over the last two years. Wind supply chains, which are dominated by a few manufacturers in China, Europe and the United States, have yet to fully recover.
The cost increases have been devastating for offshore wind projects in the Northeast, where developers have canceled more than half the projects they planned to build this decade.
Wind isn't languishing only in the United States. While a record 117 gigawatts of new wind capacity came online last year globally, virtually all of that growth was in China. In the rest of the world, developers weren't installing wind turbines any faster than they were in 2020.
The Case for Wind Power
Wind power can be incredibly useful for cutting the greenhouse gas emissions that are rapidly heating the planet, experts say.
That may surprise some: After all, the wind doesn't always blow when it's needed, and the average turbine only runs at maximum power about one-third of the time.
But when energy modelers have studied the lowest-cost ways to eliminate U.S. emissions, they have often concluded that it would be invaluable to get about one-third or more of the nation's electricity from wind, up from about 10 percent today, alongside a mix of other technologies like solar, batteries, nuclear power, hydrogen and gas plants that can capture and bury their carbon.
That's because wind turbines provide very cheap electricity, and they often ramp up at night, when solar power is unavailable. (As the energy writer Michael Thomas recently showed, this is readily apparent in Texas, where wind and solar power complement each other.)
New, long-distance transmission lines are crucial for unlocking American wind energy, but permitting and building them has become a brutal slog.
If wind power can't expand as quickly as many proponents hope, the United States would need to rely much more heavily on other technologies that can supply carbon-free power throughout the day, such as new nuclear reactors or advanced geothermal power. But those technologies are still in earlier stages of development and are currently more expensive than wind.
"Limiting wind is the worst possible thing you could tell me we have to overcome" in trying to cut emissions to zero, said Ben Haley, a co-founder of Evolved Energy Research, an energy modeling firm.
Can Wind Make a Comeback?
It's still possible that wind power could rebound. In fact, some experts argue that the recent slowdown is only a temporary artifact of tax policy.
It can take years to develop a wind farm and most companies had raced to finish projects by the end of 2021, which is when the last big federal tax credit for wind power was set to expire. The following year, Congress approved new subsidies in the Inflation Reduction Act, but it will take time for companies to refill the pipeline of wind projects in response.
"There are signs that wind is starting to turn the corner," said John Hensley, vice president for markets and policy analysis at the American Clean Power Association, a renewable industry trade group.
Mr. Hensley said that U.S. wind manufacturing was beginning to ramp up thanks to new tax incentives, while costs were starting to come down. Last year, orders for new turbines increased by 130 percent, although many of them won't be delivered until 2025 or later.
The wind industry has been struggling with soaring equipment costs after the pandemic wrecked supply chains and interest rates spiked.
Some states are now trying to make it easier to build renewable energy: Illinois, Michigan and Minnesota have all passed laws making it harder for local governments to restrict wind and solar. The federal government has issued new rules to accelerate the planning of transmission lines.
Demand for wind could also rise as a growing number of states, tech companies and hydrogen producers are trying to secure clean electricity around the clock, rather than just a burst of solar power in the daytime.
California is a case in point. While the state leads the nation in drawing electricity from the sun, it still relies heavily on natural gas after dark. Batteries can help shift some of that solar power into the evening, but to meet its climate goals, California is counting on several giant new transmission lines that will import electricity from sprawling wind farms in New Mexico and Wyoming.
Even if the economics improve, wind power still faces political hurdles. Many experts say federal legislation is still needed to ease the process of building high-voltage transmission lines. But that's unlikely to happen in a sharply divided Congress. And the November election looms, with former President Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, promising to obstruct offshore wind farms if he returns to the White House.
The fate of the wind industry could be a test for whether the country can build large energy projects more generally, said Ryan Jones, a co-founder of Evolved Energy Research. "If we can't," he said, "getting to zero emissions is pretty darn challenging."
#73
Tightly stacked cords of wood line the side of a couple's home in southern Germany, while another family farther north has lined their basement with shelves stacked with pasta, rice, cooking oil and cans of chickpeas, lentils and tomatoes.
In central Germany, a man long wary of relying on the government has ensured that he can make it through weeks without power or heat; he's filled his attic with coolers to hold food, along with a camping stove, gas canisters and solar power equipment to keep the lights on and stay connected online. Others brave the chilly waters of a local lake for a daily dip, forgoing a hot shower at home.
Across Europe's largest economy, people are stocking up and battening down. Even as the authorities publish lists of essential items to prepare for power outages or natural gas rationing, many Germans are taking matters into their own hands to ensure that they have a warm home and food on the table through the winter.
A majority of Germans, a full 60 percent, trust their government, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. But with a seemingly endless barrage of Russian-fired missiles falling on Ukraine, helping to send prices for energy and food at home soaring, many Germans have decided that if faced with the worst, they might be on their own. They want to be prepared.
Mr. Bäumler splits logs into firewood for the stove that he uses to heat his home. Germans are increasingly turning to alternative fuels amid fears of outages or natural gas rationing.
Leo Bäumler spends his afternoons splitting logs from trees that he fells in a forest that is owned by his sister, near his home near Weiden, in the southern state of Bavaria. He stacks them in his woodshed until he feeds them into the stove in the kitchen of the low-slung house where he grew up.
While thousands of people across Germany have reopened sealed-off fireplaces and installed wood-burning stoves to avoid burning natural gas, which doubled in price over the past year, Mr. Bäumler heats his rooms, boils water for his morning coffee and bakes pizza with his wood-burning stove as ever.
Years ago, he recalls, his father refused to install a gas-fired central heating system, back when the first pipelines reached his home region, connecting Siberian gas fields with then-West Germany, across the Iron Curtain. For decades, natural gas piped in from Russia was abundant and cheap. Half the homes in Germany use gas for their heating.
Even before the Russian army invaded Ukraine in February, flows of Russian gas had started to dwindle, causing the wholesale price to more than double. But German leaders, citing the reliable deliveries since the Soviet era, refused to believe that President Vladimir V. Putin would deprive Europe of gas in retaliation for the European Union's support for Ukraine. Many Germans, though, whose bills were already beginning to soar at the end of 2021, began to prepare.
By the time Russia had made their first cut to gas deliveries in late spring, the government began floating the idea that Germans might have to face rationing come winter. That sent many people to heating supply stores to purchase wood stoves, and since then the price of cords of wood and wood pellets has jumped by more than 87 percent compared with 2021.
But Mr. Bäumler hasn't noticed.
"Since I live in the middle of the forest in eastern Bavaria, surrounded by trees," he said, "I don't have to worry that I will run out of wood."
The Ice Bather
Gregor Ranz, left, uses a morning skinny dip in a lake near his home instead of a shower to start his day.
While some Germans are readying for an eventual blackout or gas stoppage, still others are focusing on ways to conserve energy. The country's economy minister, Robert Habeck, became the butt of jokes over the summer when he encouraged Germans to take shorter, cooler showers.
Gregor Ranz and his friends didn't need the encouragement. Every morning between 8 and 9, they meet to skinny dip into a lake in the Wedemark district, north of Hanover. They have been holding their morning ritual since well before the energy crisis - even when the temperatures dip below freezing.
Although the gathering is social as well, Mr. Ranz said that once the energy crisis set in, it made more sense. Bathing nude - common in much of Germany - each morning served as effectively taking the cold shower approach to the extreme.
"I shower once a week, when I go to the sauna," he said. "Of course I have a shower at home, but I don't use it. A washcloth works just fine."
Making Connections
Bernd Sebastian uses less natural gas now that he's connected a wood stove to his boiler.
Bernd Sebastian has relied on a 25-year-old gas furnace to power the boiler that provides warm water and heating for his home. When the price of gas began to rise, he upgraded his furnace, but he also hooked up his wood-burning stove to heat the water in his main boiler.
"We sit in front of our fireplace every day, and it warms the water in my boiler and the heater draws from that," he said. When the fireplace is off, the gas furnace kicks in.
He said that he contemplated getting a heat pump, which draws warmth from the air. "That would be ideal, but that runs on electricity and with power prices going up, it wouldn't save me money unless I installed solar panels, which is another outlay."
Roswitha Sebastian in the living room with the family's wood stove. Her husband, Bernd, has been stacking firewood wherever he can.
Mr. Sebastian gathers wood from a nearby forest that is managed by a friend who alerts him when trees have fallen or been felled. Then he gathers it up and brings it home to be split and stacked.
Since last year, he has been stocking up, stacking it in every patch he can find in and around his home, including some outdoor space used by his wife, Roswitha. At 76, he's worried that he might not be able to keep enough of it chopped and ready to keep their fireplace going and avoid using gas.
"I've had to steal two flower beds from my wife," he said. "And the third is up for discussion."
Leaving the Grid
To deal with power outages, Bernward Schepers has folding solar panels and a battery.
Bernward Schepers did not wait for the government to begin urging citizens to stock up on nonperishable food and 20 liters of water per person. For months, he has been collecting supplies and pivoting his heating and power away from fossil fuels.
"Thank God I bought a wood-burning stove years ago," he said. Over the past year, he has acquired an electric heater and a large battery with portable solar panels that can be folded out to generate energy.
More and more Germans were drawn to solar energy in 2022. The amount of power generated from solar panels increased by one-third in the first part of the year, amid fears of potential blackouts.
"If we were to lose electricity, that way at least we can power some of the small things and keep the food in the refrigerator from spoiling," he said. "I also bought a small stove with a gas canister, so that if needed we can cook."
Bernward Schepers and his son, Bastian, with coolers and other gear in their attic.
When he first talked of readying for the worst, Mr. Schepers' son, Bastian Schepers, rolled his eyes. For a while, his family poked fun at his preparations. Not anymore.
He also has been sharing his knowledge with colleagues and friends, who have approached him for advice.
"You just have to make sure that you always have your food stocks up to scratch, that you have enough there," Mr. Schepers said. "Then you are good, whatever happens."
The Stockpilers
It was the first Covid lockdowns that sent the Arndt family into preparation mode. "It started with toilet paper," said Lars Arndt, who lives at home with his parents, brother and grandfather in Johannesberg, southeast of Frankfurt.
That was when his mother, Claudia Arndt, decided they needed to turn their basement, where the family had stored a variety of things, including some nonperishable items like jam and tinned vegetables, into a storage unit. As the lockdowns in Germany progressed in 2020 and 2021, the family began stockpiling more items, adding flour, pasta and a tank holding 100 liters of drinking water.
They also changed the way they heat the house. After years of relying on a gas-fired furnace for central heating, this winter they reverted to their main wood-burning stove which only heats the dining and living rooms on the main floor of the house. The other rooms are unheated.
"We have been thinking more and more," he said, about "what we can do to make sure that we are able to provide for ourselves."
"We don't want to be dependent on others for what we need," he added. "But to be able to take things into our own hands."
#74
Like many people driving an electric car for the first time, Mikey Marohn had questions: Could he drive hundreds of miles to visit his father without stopping? Where would the chargers be? How did you turn it on?
"I'm anxious," said Mr. Marohn, a 34-year-old carpenter, as he settled behind the wheel of a Chevrolet Bolt near Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming.
But after a test drive with Alicia Cox, executive director of Yellowstone-Teton Clean Cities, a nonprofit group that promotes green transportation, Mr. Marohn had gone from skeptical to curious.
"I would consider it," he said after Ms. Cox explained that he could save $3,000 a year in fuel costs if he replaced his Chevy Impala with a Bolt. "I'd like to save money and help the planet."
Green energy and transportation have advanced faster than many experts thought possible a few years ago. But many hurdles remain, including efforts by conservative politicians to prolong the use of coal, oil and gas and campaigns by environmentalists and local residents to block new wind turbines, transmission lines and mines.
Just as important will be persuading people like Mr. Marohn that electric cars, renewable energy and electric heaters and stoves are practical, economical and exciting.
Ms. Cox, who travels Wyoming offering free rides in the Chevy Bolt, is part of a broad, and sometimes quixotic, retail effort to win hearts and minds in the fight against climate change, one person at a time. Biden administration officials are trying to highlight to voters the economic benefits of his energy and industrial policies. Corporations like General Motors, which makes the Bolt, are spending billions of dollars to build electric vehicles they hope to sell everywhere, even in conservative states like Wyoming.
Alicia Cox, ??executive director of Yellowstone-Teton Clean Cities, travels Wyoming offering free rides in an electric Chevy Bolt.
In conversations with activists, policymakers and corporate executives, it becomes clear that a save-the-planet argument doesn't go very far. Most people won't buy green technology unless it will clearly save them money and wows them with stunning designs or jaw-dropping performance.
Many, conservatives in particular, chafe at the prospect of the government forcing them to buy electric cars or ditch their natural gas appliances, polls show. That's perhaps why those pitching the technology often avoid mentioning climate change. They emulate evangelists who don't lead with Jesus when trying to win over nonbelievers.
Many Americans Are Still Skeptical of E.V.s. Especially Republicans.
How likely U.S. adults say they are to seriously consider purchasing an electric vehicle the next time they buy a car or truck:
The Clean Energy Future Is a Battle for Hearts and Minds - The New York Times
A clean energy future will require painstaking and individually tailored persuasion campaigns. About half of Americans say they are not interested in buying electric cars, and a little more than half say they have not seriously considered solar panels, heat pumps or electric water heaters, a recent Pew Research Center survey found.
"I never expect anyone to adopt an E.V. on the first go of it," Ms. Cox said. "They need someone walking along beside them as they are making the decision."
"I never expect anyone to adopt an E.V. on the first go of it," Ms. Cox said.
Selling Green Energy
Jae Landreth operates a solar installation business in Baldwin City, Kan., a rural town southwest of Kansas City. Though he believes in climate change, he said, he "learned the hard way" not to mention it when marketing solar panels to his neighbors.
"That's not how you sell it," he said over coffee at his home. "Nobody's ever going to make a decision unless it benefits them in a money sense."
Mr. Landreth, an ebullient man who plays percussion in a Phil Collins tribute band, owns a Tesla, an electric off-road vehicle and an electric Ford F-150 Lightning pickup he uses for his business, Solar Planet.
His enthusiasm for electric vehicles is hardly the norm in this patch of corn-and-cattle country. It's not unusual for drivers of Teslas and Toyota Prius hybrids to get "coal-rolled" by diesel trucks rigged to produce clouds of black exhaust on demand.
One of Mr. Landreth's customers is Rob Leach, a dairy farmer. Mr. Leach hired Mr. Landreth to install solar panels on his barn when it was rebuilt after a 2019 tornado. The panels power the large fans that were keeping Mr. Leach's cows cool on a July day when the temperature was in the high 90s.
Jae Landreth's solar installation business in Baldwin City, Kan., counts Rob Leach, a dairy farmer, among his customers.
Cost was crucial, according to Mr. Leach. "I said, 'I just want to know at the end of the month, am I going to be paying less even with my investment in solar?' And that has been the case."
Mr. Leach has since encouraged other farmers to install solar panels. "I've had several friends of mine that were, you know, not necessarily trying to save the planet," he said. "They just wanted to save money."
The Inflation Reduction Act passed by Democrats last year allocated hundreds of billions of dollars in incentives for wind and solar manufacturing, electric vehicles and other clean energy.
A Clean Energy Manufacturing Boom in the Making
The Clean Energy Future Is a Battle for Hearts and Minds - The New York Times
Although no Republicans voted for the bill, much of the money has gone to G.O.P.-led states in the South where many automakers, battery manufacturers and solar companies are building factories in part to take advantage of the law's tax breaks.
Getting credit for the new jobs is a political imperative for President Biden, who will be seeking re-election next year. That helps explains why his energy secretary, Jennifer Granholm, spent part of July traversing the Southeast in a caravan of electric vehicles.
More Green Investments Are Flowing to Red Counties
Ms. Granholm stopped at universities and elementary schools, a hardware store and a Baptist church. She made the case that federal investment in clean energy is creating thousands of jobs, saving consumers money and even protecting the nation against President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who has used fossil fuel exports to exert pressure.
Not on Ms. Granholm's list of reasons to go green: climate change.
Sipping black coffee at a Starbucks outside Memphis. Ms. Granholm said she liked to focus on how Biden administration policies were turning the region into a vibrant manufacturing hub. "It's important to lean on the message that makes sense for people where they are."

Mr. Landreth said he had "learned the hard way" not to mention climate change when marketing solar panels to his neighbors.
Jobs and Savings
In North and South Carolina, Georgia and Tennessee - states on Ms. Granholm's itinerary - solid majorities accept that global warming is real, according to detailed polling by the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. But there is widespread skepticism that humans are responsible.
"The climate has always been changing," said Sue Burns, 59, at a gathering of Pontiac car enthusiasts in Murfreesboro, Tenn. "The left is out of control" in insisting that burning fossil fuels is causing a planetary crisis, Ms. Burns said.
Yet Ms. Burns drives a Prius - a far cry from a Pontiac muscle car - that runs on an internal combustion engine and an electric motor. She said she had bought the car to save money on gas.
Among residents benefiting from the economic boost, attitudes may be softening. Outside Dalton, Ga., Qcells, a maker of solar panels, is planning to expand a manufacturing plant. The factory is in the congressional district represented by Marjorie Taylor Greene, a Republican who has called fossil fuels "amazing" and climate change a "scam."
William Turner, 49, one of Ms. Greene's constituents, said he didn't "really buy into that stuff" about global warming. But he added, "I don't have anything against solar, especially if it's creating jobs."
Experts say most people won't buy green technology unless it will clearly save them money or dazzle them.
The true test of public opinion will come when the promised factories are up and running, said Jason Walsh, the executive director of the BlueGreen Alliance, a partnership of unions and environmental groups.
"Political messaging and press announcements" will not convince anyone, Mr. Walsh said. "But a paycheck might."
In Democratic strongholds, Ms. Granholm's clean energy message went down more smoothly. Yet even there, many people said they needed to think with their pocketbooks, not their principles.
"I care about climate change," said Tia Williams, 29, eating lunch with a friend at the Georgia Institute of Technology before an appearance by Ms. Granholm. But she said she wasn't planning to buy an electric car because they were too expensive.
"I know the corporations love them, but I don't see much use for them myself," Ms. Williams said of federal incentives designed to make electric vehicles more affordable.
Slightly less than half of Democrats say they support phasing out fossil fuels, according to Pew. And just 12 percent of Republicans support doing so. That's perhaps why Mr. Biden tends to emphasize the economic upside of his policies.

In July, Mr. Biden went to South Carolina, where he taunted Republicans who had voted against climate change and infrastructure bills yet were reaping their benefits. Mr. Biden toured Flex, which makes fast chargers for electric cars and is in the district represented by Joe Wilson, a Republican who said the Inflation Reduction Act was "to the detriment of American families."
"Didn't get much help from the other team, but that didn't stop us from getting it done," Mr. Biden told the crowd, speaking of the legislation.
Gov. Roy Cooper of North Carolina, a Democrat, said in an interview that Republicans were trying to block or roll back efforts to promote electric trucks and buses, energy efficiency and offshore wind development. But Mr. Cooper predicted that economics would prevail.
"Even if some of them deny the science of climate change, they can't deny good-paying jobs," he said.
Not 'Mission: Impossible'
In Wyoming, where coal, oil, natural gas and souped-up pickups are cherished, Patrick Lawson is fighting a lonely campaign.
A member of the Northern Arapaho Tribe, he tries to get local businesses to install charging stations. He takes out his Tesla Model Y and Ford F-150 Lightning as an Uber driver at night, less to make money than to drum up interest in electric vehicles.
Once a year he participates in the Rocky Mountain Rebels Car Show in Riverton, which adjoins his reservation. "I just want to change the perception that electric cars are not as good as big, noisy muscle cars," Mr. Lawson said.
It's a tough sell. During a Friday night "cruise parade" that opened the show, Mr. Lawson's mother, Susan Lawson, drove a red Tesla Model X, its distinctive wing doors open. As she waited in a lumber store parking lot for the parade to start, a middle-age woman approached.
"Wow, it's a Tesla, beautiful car," said the woman, who identified herself only as Cheryl, "a patriot and small business owner."
But then her tone shifted. "I don't believe in electric cars," she said. "The government could turn them off. The government controls our electricity."
Patrick Lawson lobbies local businesses to install charging stations, talks to skeptics and demonstrates his Tesla at the car show's obstacle course.
A few bystanders on the parade route commented favorably about the Tesla's looks. But there were brickbats, too. "They're on their way to Jackson," someone said, referring to the liberal resort town. "Good luck getting over the pass in that thing," shouted another.
After the Lawsons parked in front of the local Elks lodge, a man pretending to hold a machine gun fired a spray of imaginary bullets at the electric vehicles.
That kind of reaction doesn't deter Mr. Lawson, 42, who manages the tribe's internet company along with his small charging business, Wild West EV.
When Mr. Lawson arranged $174,000 to match a federal grant to install charging stations at the city hall and airport, the Riverton City Council declined the money. The one public charging station in town, outside a sandwich shop, is often blocked by trucks, sometimes deliberately parked horizontally to make charging impossible.
During an obstacle race that was part of the car show, another Tesla driver beat all 40 cars. Onlookers were impressed but still skeptical. "It doesn't fit everybody's needs," said Kent Wheeler, a technician at an auto body and paint shop.
Mr. Lawson remains optimistic. "I'm in it for the long haul," he said. "It's not 'Mission: Impossible.'"
Ford Motor, G.M. and dozens of other companies are investing hundreds of billions of dollars to refit factories and build new ones to produce electric vehicles. They don't want to make cars that only Democrats buy.
One company confronting the marketing problem is Polaris, a Minnesota company that builds four-wheel off-road vehicles used by hunters and farmers.
In April, Polaris began selling a $25,000 electric vehicle called the Ranger XP Kinetic. Advertising barely mentions the environment, instead stressing its performance. The strategy seems to have worked. The initial production run sold out two hours after Polaris began taking orders.

Mr. Lawson, a member of the Northern Arapaho Tribe, said, "I just want to change the perception that electric cars are not as good as big, noisy muscle cars."
"We knew the target customer," said Josh Hermes, vice president for electric off-road vehicles at Polaris. "We really focused in on the benefits of the product"
One of the first buyers was Paul Rosenzweig, a Georgia resident who is in the wholesale feed business and is skeptical that climate change is caused by mankind. Rather, Mr. Rosenzweig, who hunts deer, rabbit and squirrels in Louisiana, likes how quiet the Polaris is.
"You see more wildlife with electric than you do with the motor burning," he said.
When G.M. begins selling a battery-powered version of its Chevy Silverado pickup this year, it will emphasize the truck's 450-mile range and towing capacity.
The company's chief executive, Mary T. Barra, said the cars were winning people over. Customers are "figuring out they're really fun to drive, and it's really nice to not have to go to the gas station," she said in an interview.
There are tentative signs that conservative opposition is wavering.
The Republican-controlled Legislature in Alabama, where Mercedes-Benz makes electric cars and Polaris builds the Kinetic, has allocated $1 million a year for a campaign to encourage residents to buy electric vehicles.
"We want to make sure we embrace the jobs and economic opportunities that accompany this new generation of vehicles," Kenneth Boswell, director of the Alabama Department of Economic and Community Affairs, said in a statement.
Republican lawmakers in Missouri have sought to block Quinton Lucas, Kansas City's Democratic mayor, from raising the minimum wage, making buildings more energy-efficient and restricting gun ownership. But they have not tried to block Kansas City from buying electric cars and trucks, Mr. Lucas said.
Building inspectors and supervisors in the Fire Department drive electric cars. At the city-owned airport, electric tractors deliver baggage, and electric buses shuttle passengers. The technology saves the city thousands of dollars per vehicle in maintenance and fuel costs.
"They usually notice everything new that we do and often try to pre-empt it," Mr. Lucas said of the Legislature. "And so what that tells me is, actually, I don't see this being a flashpoint."
#75
A few years ago, the kind of double-digit drop in oil and gas prices the world is experiencing now because of the coronavirus pandemic might have increased the use of fossil fuels and hurt renewable energy sources like wind and solar farms.
That is not happening.
In fact, renewable energy sources are set to account for nearly 21 percent of the electricity the United States uses for the first time this year, up from about 18 percent last year and 10 percent in 2010, according to one forecast published last week. And while work on some solar and wind projects has been delayed by the outbreak, industry executives and analysts expect the renewable business to continue growing in 2020 and next year even as oil, gas and coal companies struggle financially or seek bankruptcy protection.
In many parts of the world, including California and Texas, wind turbines and solar panels now produce electricity more cheaply than natural gas and coal. That has made them attractive to electric utilities and investors alike. It also helps that while oil prices have been more than halved since the pandemic forced most state governments to order people to stay home, natural gas and coal prices have not dropped nearly as much.
Even the decline in electricity use in recent weeks as businesses halted operations could help renewables, according to analysts at Raymond James & Associates. That's because utilities, as revenue suffers, will try to get more electricity from wind and solar farms, which cost little to operate, and less from power plants fueled by fossil fuels.
"Renewables are on a growth trajectory today that I think isn't going to be set back long term," said Dan Reicher, the founding executive director of the Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance at Stanford University and an assistant energy secretary in the Clinton administration. "This will be a bump in the road."
Of course, the economic slowdown caused by the fight against the coronavirus is taking a toll on parts of the renewable energy industry just as it is on the rest of the economy. Businesses that until recently were adding workers are laying people off and putting off investments. Among the hardest hit are smaller companies that sell solar panels for rooftops. Their orders have dropped steeply as customers put off installations to avoid possible contact with the virus.
Luminalt, a solar and electricity storage company based in San Francisco that employs 42 people, recently told most of its installers to seek unemployment benefits as the company's residential jobs - normally six a week - have all but evaporated. Jeanine Cotter, Luminalt's chief executive, told workers that the company would cover their benefits but that there was no money coming in to pay all of them.
A half-dozen employees are installing solar at an affordable-housing project that has kept them working, and some who handle business operations are working from home. But Ms. Cotter worries about some installers who joined the company through San Francisco's work force development program and depend on weekly paychecks to make ends meet.
"Revenue has stopped," said Ms. Cotter, who helped found the business 15 years ago. "It's very confusing right now."
The Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group, estimates that half of the 250,000 workers in the industry could lose their jobs at least temporarily because of the coronavirus outbreak. The association has downgraded projected growth by as much as one-third of the more than 19 gigawatts of new solar capacity that was expected this year.
But independent experts, including Wood Mackenzie, an energy research and consulting firm, say those projections could be overly pessimistic. "It's still too early to call," Ravi Manghani, head of solar at research at Wood Mackenzie. "The situation is changing on a daily basis."
His firm estimates that solar and wind power will continue adding capacity this year and next. New wind installations might be down only about 3 percent from earlier projections, largely because wind turbines are typically erected outside urban areas, and many states have deemed construction an essential activity during the pandemic.
In a report last week, Raymond James analysts estimated that renewable energy sources would provide 20.7 percent of the nation's electricity this year and at least 20 percent through 2022.
Although hydroelectric plants have long helped power homes and businesses, solar and wind power emerged as major energy sources only over the last 15 years or so. A sharp drop in the price of solar panels has helped the industry expand. Last year, solar capacity increased 23 percent from the year before. It added 13.3 gigawatts, exceeding new wind and natural-gas generation, according to industry data.
"We blew through all of the projections," said Caton Fenz, chief executive of ConnectGen, a wind, solar and electricity-storage developer based in Houston. "We're surfing a long-term wave," he said. "We just can't get specific things done because of the pandemic, but I don't think that affects the broader trajectory."
His company, which is 22 months old, has 3,000 megawatts - the equivalent of three large power plants - under development in 11 states. About 40 percent is wind projects, 40 percent solar and the rest electricity storage.
Among the company's backers is 547 Energy, an investment firm that specializes in renewable energy. Gabriel Alonso, who runs 547 Energy, said his firm received its funding from Quantum Energy Partners, which had long been an investor in oil and natural gas.
"As an investor in clean energy, renewable energy, the fundamentals that drove us to invest have not changed," Mr. Alonso said.
Even as the pandemic spread, Mr. Alonso's company won a bid last week for part of a new electricity project in Greece. His company will develop a wind farm in the northern regions of Imathia and Kozani. The auction, on Thursday, was part of a larger effort by Greece to retire fossil fuel plants and replace them with renewables.
Many renewable companies have projects around the world and have benefited from government efforts to address climate change. That has helped drive down costs of wind and solar equipment and made the industry more resilient to economic swings.
In addition, because developers can build wind and solar farms more quickly than natural-gas, coal and nuclear plants, Mr. Alonso said, the renewables have become more attractive financially. In difficult economic times like these, he said, private equity investors like Quantum are eager to seize on businesses that can quickly scale up and start earning money.
That said, solar businesses in particular are worried that the disruptions caused by the pandemic are serious enough that they are seeking help from Congress. Lobbyists for renewable energy are asking lawmakers to make it easier for their industry to take advantage of tax credits the government provides for wind and solar power.
Developers usually enter into partnerships with banks and other financial institutions that can more efficiently make use of the tax credits than the contractors building renewable energy projects. The banks receive the tax credit and a share of the cash flow from the project typically for six to 10 years.
But because demand for loans has shot up as businesses across the economy struggle, banks have been less able to finance new projects, said Josh Goldstein, chief operating officer at 8minute Solar Energy, a developer of large solar farms. Solar and wind industry officials want Congress to streamline the process for obtaining tax credits and make the credits refundable so that their businesses could benefit directly.
"Their credit committees are in crisis mode," Mr. Goldstein said about banks. "This disruption can have a particularly damaging effect."
8minute Solar was recently forced to suspend work on the Lotus Solar Project, a 67-megawatt solar farm north of Fresno, Calif., that it is building for Allianz Global Investors. Officials said it was unclear whether the work, which employed about 50 people, was considered "essential."
But the Department of Homeland Security included electricity production on its list of essential activities last month, affirming legal advice that 8minute had received, and the company sent workers back to finish construction.
The solar industry expected to add more panels in 2020 than in any other previous year, said Abigail Hopper, president of the Solar Energy Industries Association. That won't happen now, but the industry is still poised to add capacity.
"We believe, over the long run, we are well positioned to outcompete incumbent generators," Ms. Hopper said.
#76
When Vietnam was awarded a multibillion-dollar deal by a group of nine wealthy nations last year to work on reducing its use of coal, it agreed to regularly consult with nongovernmental organizations.
Instead, the government has arrested several prominent environmentalists from those organizations who shaped policies that helped secure the funding, prompting concerns over sending money to countries that have violated human rights.
As the country prepares to announce how it will spend the money at the United Nations climate talks that begin on Thursday, activists are saying that Vietnamese officials need to be held accountable for what they are calling a harsh crackdown against those who speak out about the country's environmental woes.
Ngo Thi To Nhien, the director of an energy think tank, was the sixth environmental campaigner to be detained in the past two years.
She had met with officials from the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment in March to discuss a plan for the climate deal, the Just Energy Transition Partnership, an effort among the United States, Japan and other developed countries to persuade developing economies to abandon coal. The nine nations had announced in December that Vietnam would receive $15.5 billion in grants and loans in exchange for a commitment to renewable energy.
Ms. Nhien, 48, never got the chance to see Vietnam present the plan. She was arrested in September and remains in a detention center on a charge of "appropriating documents of agencies and organizations."
The other five who were detained were charged with tax evasion, which rights groups say are trumped-up accusations in response to their advocacy. Four were tried in closed hearings that lasted less than a day each, and given jail time, punishments more severe than the norm. While two activists have since been released, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights said in September that the "prosecutions and the arbitrary application of restrictive legislation are having a chilling effect" on environmentalists in Vietnam.
Activists and academics say that Vietnam appears to be emboldened by its growing importance to the West and has taken the opportunity to clamp down, knowing there will be few repercussions. The country has presented itself as an increasingly important geopolitical player, and one of the few Southeast Asian nations that has publicly pushed back against China. President Biden visited Vietnam in September, elevating ties to a new strategic relationship that he said would "be a force for prosperity and security in one of the most consequential regions in the world."
"We're dealing with a juggernaut," said Phil Robertson, the deputy director of Human Rights Watch's Asia division. "They have run the table on the international community, and they're continuing to do so."
He pointed to Vietnam's invitation to the Group of 7 summit this year, its inclusion on the Human Rights Council and now the funding from the Just Energy Transition Partnership, despite the country's troubling human rights record.
Since 2016, when Nguyen Phu Trong, the general secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam, was re-elected, the space for civil society has shrunk immensely. The country has the second-highest number of political prisoners in Southeast Asia, with more than 160 people currently detained for exercising their basic rights, according to Human Rights Watch.
The authorities in Vietnam have long persecuted people who are viewed as overt threats to one-party rule. But Mr. Trong's administration has gone much further, targeting people who were previously given some room to operate.
Vietnam rejects any suggestions that the prosecutions are politically motivated. Pham Thu Hang, a spokeswoman for the Vietnamese foreign ministry, said last month that the environmentalists' cases were "investigated, prosecuted and tried in accordance with the provisions of Vietnam law."
All six ran organizations that were outspoken about the country's environmental problems. That advocacy ultimately put them on a collision course with the Communist Party.
Their detentions are a signal that the government wants the energy transition to be carried out on its own terms and not on the advice of groups they have long deemed suspicious, said Nguyen Khac Giang, a visiting fellow at the ISEAS-Yusof Ishak Institute, a research organization in Singapore.
On the day Ms. Nhien was detained, Nhan Dan, the official newspaper of the Communist Party, criticized foreign donors who had funded policy research, saying they had directed groups to publish reports with "one-sided, negative content, tarnishing the situation of the country and the people of Vietnam."
Vietnam, a manufacturing powerhouse that is home to nearly 99.5 million people, is the ninth-largest coal consumer globally. In 2021, Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh vowed that the country would phase out coal consumption by 2040.
The Just Energy Transition Partnership was first awarded to South Africa in 2021 as part of an effort by wealthy countries to address longstanding inequities in tackling climate change. Activists now see Vietnam as a litmus test for future agreements. Should other repressive governments be given billions of dollars? Should there be specific requirements for countries that receive funding but have poor human rights records?
Several countries behind the climate deal have expressed concern about the detentions in Vietnam, but rights groups say those nations need to predicate their financial support on the release of the environmentalists or a pledge from the government that there will not be additional arrests. So far, the countries have been unwilling to do so, said Ben Swanton, a director at The 88 Project, a U.S.-based nonprofit that focuses on human rights issues in Vietnam.
Dang Dinh Bach, 45, ran a law and policy research center before he was arrested in 2021.
In one of the harshest penalties in Vietnam for someone convicted of tax evasion, Dang Dinh Bach, 45, was given a five-year sentence in January 2022. He ran a law and sustainable development policy research center that provided legal aid to communities.
Mr. Bach refused to plead guilty. Tran Phuong Thao, his wife, said that she was not allowed to attend his trial and that he has been assaulted in prison by police officers.
"People like my husband have made great efforts to support the government and give suggestions on energy transition policies," Ms. Thao said.
The arrest of Ms. Nhien, the think tank director, was particularly unusual because she was not a government critic. She led the Vietnam Initiative for Energy Transition Social Enterprise, the first group in the country to specialize in energy transition.
A former civil servant, Ms. Nhien had worked as a consultant at the World Bank and the Southeast Asia Energy Transition Partnership, a program managed by a U.N. infrastructure agency. She championed policymaking based on scientific evidence and was invited in May to speak to the Ministry of Science and Technology of Vietnam. In June 2020, she organized a workshop on integrating renewable energy sources into the country's grid, presenting information from the state electricity utility.
That was enough to make her a target. On Sept. 15, four days after Mr. Biden left Vietnam, she was detained. The Ministry of Public Security pointed to the workshop as evidence of her "appropriating internal documents."
Two weeks later, a court in Ho Chi Minh City sentenced Hoang Thi Minh Hong, 51, one of Vietnam's best-known environmentalists, to three years in prison for tax evasion.
Ms. Hong's husband, Hoang Vinh Nam, called his wife's trial a sham and said the tax department did not send anyone to testify against her. When her peers started being arrested two years ago, Ms. Hong called the tax bureau to ask whether she owed anything and was assured that she did not, he said.
In December, Ms. Hong decided to shut down her environmental nonprofit, citing government pressures. She was arrested in May.
#77
Britain's foreign secretary, David Lammy, is scheduled to arrive in Beijing on Friday on a two-day visit aimed at resetting and smoothing ties with China while acknowledging differences between the two countries over issues including human rights and the war in Ukraine.
Mr. Lammy is set to meet with the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, on Friday before traveling to Shanghai for meetings with British business leaders who have operations there.
Ahead of the visit, the British government said the foreign secretary would urge China to curtail its political and economic support of Russia's war effort in Ukraine.
"Engagement with China is pragmatic and necessary to support U.K. and global interests," Mr. Lammy said in remarks released ahead of his arrival. "From stopping Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine to supporting a global green transition, we must speak often and candidly across both areas of contention as well as areas for cooperation in the U.K.'s national interest."
In a statement, the British government said it recognized that there were "significant differences, including on democratic values and freedoms, Hong Kong and support for Russia's illegal war in Ukraine." But it added that there were also "shared interests, including a global green energy transition and deep economic links with China."
British officials see the visit as an attempt to re-engage with China after a period under a series of Conservative governments that was marked by several sharp changes of tone.
In 2015, the Conservative chancellor of the Exchequer at the time, George Osborne, called for a "golden decade" of Sino-British cooperation, but over the following years the relationship steadily became more adversarial. Earlier this year, Rishi Sunak, then the prime minister, said that China represented the "greatest state-based threat" to Britain's economic security.
Ahead of the election that Labour won in July, the party pledged that "after 14 years of damaging Conservative inconsistency over China," it would bring "a long-term and strategic approach to managing our relations," adding, "We will cooperate where we can, compete where we need to and challenge where we must."
Mr. Lammy has called his approach to foreign policy "progressive realism." But critics question how he will be able to cooperate, compete with and challenge China simultaneously, while also keeping in step with U.S. policy toward Beijing.
At home, Mr. Lammy is under pressure to raise the issue of human rights in China. On Wednesday, Mr. Sunak, who is leader of the Conservative Party until his successor is chosen, called on the foreign secretary to use his Beijing trip to condemn recent Chinese military exercises in the Taiwan Strait and to persuade the government in Beijing to end sanctions against several British lawmakers who had raised concerns about human rights in China.
Answering Mr. Sunak in Parliament, the prime minister, Keir Starmer, said that "continued military activity in the strait is not conducive to peace and stability" and that the government would press for the lifting of sanctions on British members of Parliament.
"There is a clear political desire to differentiate this government from the approach of the previous leadership, and an institutional interest in direct engagement," said Sophia Gaston, a foreign-policy analyst based in London. "But we must remember that Beijing has been preparing for this for a long time and will doggedly pursue its own interests."
Britain's new government may hope that an improvement in relations could yield some economic benefits and help to spur badly needed growth in the domestic economy.
Earlier this week, the government said that it does not plan to follow the European Union in imposing tariffs on imports of electric vehicles from China. This month the bloc opted for import duties on Chinese-made E.V.s of up to 45 percent in a dispute over subsidies it said are being provided to manufacturers in China. Beijing denies unfair competition.
#78
On a sweltering day in August, Claudia Sheinbaum appeared with her mentor, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, to inaugurate one of the costliest infrastructure projects in Mexico's history: a $16 billion oil refinery.
The sprawling complex in Mr. López Obrador's home state, Tabasco, forms the capstone of an energy strategy that he will bequeath to Ms. Sheinbaum, a climate scientist, when she takes the presidency in October.
As countries around the world feverishly turn to clean energy sources, Mexico has placed a colossal bet on fossil fuels, with the costs of that strategy now coming painfully into view.
Mexico's oil production tumbled to a 45-year low this year, one of the steepest output declines anywhere in the world this century. Blackouts plagued the country after Mr. López Obrador heaped scorn on wind farms that could help satisfy electricity demand. Natural gas imports for the strained grid are soaring, making energy independence an ever more distant dream.
Pemex, the state-controlled oil giant, is now the world's most indebted oil company after going on a spending spree to build projects. To stave off a default on its nearly $100 billion debt, the company has required multibillion-dollar bailouts using taxpayer money.
The disorder in Mexico's energy industry lays bare a dilemma that will shape the country's fortunes - and Ms. Sheinbaum's presidency - in the years to come. Ms. Sheinbaum, who has a Ph.D. in energy engineering, has signaled that she wants Mexico to pivot to clean energy sources. But the biggest obstacles in her way may be her mentor's nationalistic energy policies that are fixated on oil - and her reluctance to bump heads with the man who helped put her in office.
"It's a source of pride to see how Mexican engineers and workers have achieved this feat," Ms. Sheinbaum said at the refinery's inauguration.
She barely mentioned her own plans for an energy transition at the event. Instead, Ms. Sheinbaum voiced full-throated support for Mr. López Obrador's oil-centric policies, calling the refinery, named Olmeca, "majestic," while blasting previous leaders for exporting Mexico's oil and opening the energy industry to private investment.
But the refinery, intended to tilt Mexico toward energy self-sufficiency by processing the country's crude oil into gasoline instead of relying on U.S. refineries, remains far from fully operational, according to the International Energy Agency. Beset by delays and cost overruns, Mr. López Obrador already inaugurated the project once before, in 2022, when it was supposed to start operating in 2023.
Altogether, the Olmeca refinery doubled in cost from its initial $8 billion budget, adding to the financial pressure on Pemex. The company owes financial creditors almost $100 billion, and billions more to service providers that help the company produce oil. Delays in paying these companies led some to halt work this year for Pemex, contributing along with underinvestment in exploration to declining output.
"In one word, it is unsustainable," Adriana Eraso, a Latin America corporate analyst at Fitch Ratings, said about Pemex's strain under its debt load.
Neither Ms. Sheinbaum nor Mr. López Obrador responded to requests for comment. Pemex's leadership also did not respond.
Hints emerged on the campaign trail of Ms. Sheinbaum's energy plans before she won in a landslide in June. They include building solar plants, pushing Pemex into mining the lithium used in electric vehicle (E.V.) batteries and constructing charging infrastructure for E.V.s.
Ms. Sheinbaum has also proposed a cap on Pemex's oil production, a change in course that would involve chipping away at one of modern Mexico's foundational myths, dating to the country's 1938 nationalization of its oil resources: that Mexico is an oil power, with oil at the core of the economy.
"When I talk to people in my social circle, they tend to believe Mexico continues to be an important oil-producing country," said Adrián Duhalt, an energy expert at Rice University, citing relatives and friends who work at or have retired from Pemex. "That's no longer the case when you look at the numbers."
In the early decades of the 20th century, Mexico was the world's largest oil exporter. But the country's crude oil production plunged from 3.2 million barrels a day at the start of this century to about 1.5 million, largely reflecting underinvestment in exploration. While Mexico still exports some crude oil, the country must import everything from natural gas and diesel to jet fuel.
As a result, Mexico's clout in global energy markets has dwindled as other countries in the Americas - the United States, Guyana and Brazil - rise in prominence. Mexico's crude oil output is now dwarfed by that of the state of New Mexico, which alone produces two million barrels a day with a population about one-sixtieth the size of Mexico's.
And yet, schoolchildren still learn about the nationalization of oil in textbooks. Monuments celebrate state control of the oil industry, and polls show broad resistance to any hint of privatizing Pemex. A national holiday on March 18 commemorates the day in 1938 when a leftist president took control of foreign-owned oil assets.
Mr. López Obrador adroitly embraced oil nationalism upon taking office in late 2018, casting attempts by the previous government to open the energy industry to meaningful foreign investment as a sellout.
Prioritizing fossil fuels, he publicly mocked wind turbines after his government canceled auctions for solar projects. His supporters point out political reasons for making such a huge bet on oil.
Octavio Romero, Pemex's chief executive, contends that Mexico had to pursue costly refinery projects for national security reasons because of the country's reliance on imports of refined fuels from the United States.
"What happens if for some reason, political or natural disaster-related, the ports for importing gasoline are closed?" Mr. Romero told reporters in April.
Still, the costs of propping up Pemex are climbing. Altogether, Mexican authorities have granted Pemex the staggering amount of at least $70 billion in relief in the form of capital injections and tax breaks since 2019, reflecting how Pemex has gone from providing the bulk of government revenues to requiring repeated bailouts.
Pemex, for its part, remains known for retaining privileges like its own country clubs, hospitals and schools. Some executives enjoy perks like enviable pensions and tuition reimbursement at private universities for their children.
Some argue that the government should withdraw its support for Pemex and let it default, contending that at the moment, the country's relatively resilient economy could absorb the aftershocks.
Damian Fraser, a former country manager in Mexico for the Swiss banking giant UBS, said that if the authorities did not act now, a default by Pemex down the road could unleash economic chaos by raising borrowing costs for a constellation of companies in a country that has eclipsed China as the largest trading partner of the United States.
"If there is ever a time to let bondholders take a hit on Pemex, this might be it," said Mr. Fraser, who now runs Miranda Partners, which advises companies on doing business in Mexico. "The government is mainly bailing out oil workers and Wall Street at the cost of expanding Mexico's social programs."
But for Ms. Sheinbaum - or any Mexican leader for that matter - withdrawing support for Pemex could also be extremely unpopular. So far, she has made it clear that she has no plans to let Pemex default, seeking instead to refinance Pemex's debt in hopes of freeing up resources to shift toward clean energy sources.
Ms. Sheinbaum laid out some of her plans on March 18, the 86th anniversary of Mexico's oil expropriation, framing them as a way to bolster Pemex, keep imported energy at a minimum and avoid increasing energy prices beyond inflation.
She said she would cap Pemex's oil production at 1.8 million barrels a day, not far from what it is now producing, as a way of "decoupling" energy consumption from economic growth by focusing on clean energy and improvements in energy efficiency.
"The growth in demand must be absorbed by renewable energy sources," Ms. Sheinbaum said.
Still, specifics remain sparse as to how Ms. Sheinbaum would carry out such a shift, especially at a time when her financial maneuvering room will be limited. Another legacy from Mr. López Obrador will be a budget deficit nearing 6 percent of gross domestic product, the largest shortfall in the past 24 years. Pemex's debt alone stands at about an additional 6 percent of G.D.P.
The resource nationalism imbuing Mexican politics also raises questions as to how far Ms. Sheinbaum will be able to go in a country where oil remains central to national identity.
"People can't really rally around lithium like they can around oil," said Lisa Breglia, a scholar at George Mason University who specializes on Mexico's oil industry. "Down to Mexico's last drop of oil, people will still take to the streets."
#79
Canada announced regulations on Monday to cap carbon emissions from its oil and gas industry and reduce the release of greenhouse gases, a move bitterly opposed by the energy industry and met with lukewarm support from some environmentalists who say the rules are not strict enough.
Canadian officials said the country would cut emissions from its energy sector by 35 percent over 2019 levels by 2030. The regulations, which include financial incentives and credits, flesh out the government's announcement last December that it intended to limit emissions.
"We're asking the oil and gas sector to invest their record profits into pollution cutting projects," Steven Guilbeault, Canada's environment minister, told a news conference. "Every sector must do its part. Oil and gas companies are no exception."
The United States is the largest importer of Canadian fossil fuels, with most coming from oil sands in Alberta, which require large amounts of energy for production.
Canada's oil and gas industry is the country's largest source of carbon emissions, accounting for about one-third of the overall total.
While some oil sands operations have reduced the amount of carbon emitted for each barrel they produce, overall production has increased, raising emissions from oil sands by 142 percent over the last 19 years.
The Canadian government imposed taxes on carbon that helped reduce emissions in many sectors of the economy from 1990 to 2022. Still, Canada's overall greenhouse emissions rose by 16.5 percent during that period, largely because the oil and gas industry raised their production levels.
"It is a significant moment for Canada," Julia Levin, the associate director for climate at Environmental Defence, an environmental group, said before the announcement. "But there are troublesome loopholes." These include allowing companies that fail to make cuts to buy offsets, she said.
Climate change has been a key issue for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's government, but the emissions cap and its regulations underscore the politically difficult balancing act Mr. Trudeau faces.
While many environmental groups and climate scientists say fossil fuel needs to be phased out in favor of green energy, Mr. Trudeau has long insisted that Canada needs a strong oil industry to finance the transition away from fossil fuels.
That commitment extended to the government buying an oil pipeline from its American owner and paying for its expansion.
The government says the cap, which will take effect in 2030, is not an effort to curbing oil and gas production, but only to reduce carbon emissions.
Alberta, which relies on energy royalties for its budget, has launched an advertising campaign opposing the cap, which it says will hobble the industry and cut job.
Danielle Smith, the province's premier, said that meeting emissions cap would cause the province's energy industry to cut production by one million barrels a day by 2030. Last year, the province produced 4.3 million barrels a day.
"This is not a responsible policy," Ms. Smith said at a news conference.
Mr. Guilbeault said that Ms. Smith and her allies were ignoring the economic and environmental effects of climate change.
"They will continue doing stupid things and we will continue focusing on helping Canadians to create a robust economy, good jobs and working to protect the environment," he said.
An alliance of the largest oil sands companies has proposed installing equipment to capture carbon dioxide and then send it through pipelines to store it in underground reservoirs, a process known as carbon capture and storage.
The federal government said it would offer energy companies tens of billions of dollars in tax credits to subsidize those systems, though there is still skepticism about the technical and financial viability of large-scale carbon capture.
Kendall Dilling, the president of the alliance, called the emissions cap a "misguided proposal that will drive cuts in oil and gas production and have a significant, negative impact on Canada's economy."
Under the regulations released on Monday, energy companies that reduce their emissions will be given credits by the government. They will then be able to sell them to other oil and gas firms that have not met required emissions targets. Companies that have not met emissions targets will also have the option to pay into a fund to support carbon reduction programs.
Ms. Levin, the environmentalist, said the cap should be put in place before 2030 because more urgent action was needed to address the impact of greenhouse gases.
Caroline Brouillette, the executive director of Climate Action Network Canada, said that "leaving compliance until 2030 is like waiting until the second period of a hockey game to start keeping score."
She also noted that the governments carbon emission reduction level for the energy sector falls short of Canada's overall goal for lowering emissions. Canada has said it would reduce carbon emissions as a whole by 40 to 45 percent by 2030 from 2010 levels.
She also noted that the new measures will do nothing to limit the carbon emissions created when Canadian oil and gas exported to the United States is actually burned. The United States buys about 80 percent of Canada's production.
"Sticking our heads in the sand means we'll be unprepared when demand for Canada's oil, some of the dirtiest and most expensive in the world, collapses," Ms. Levin said.
The regulations released on Monday are drafts and are not scheduled to go into effect until the spring of next year.
But it is unclear if Mr. Trudeau's government will still be in power. His Liberal Party does not control a majority of votes in the House of Commons and it trails the Conservatives, whose power base is in Alberta, by double digits in polls.
A national election must be held by next October although the government could fall before the regulations come into effect.
#80
Looking past France's claims of a safely built Olympics
The Olympic flame arrived in France yesterday to start a weekslong relay to Paris as the country gets ready for the Summer Games.
And President Emmanuel Macron has declared that these Olympics were built safely, free of the construction hazards and migrant abuses of soccer's 2022 World Cup in Qatar. Government data shows fewer than 200 injuries and zero deaths at Olympic sites over the four-year construction.
But inspection records and other documents suggest a different story. Undocumented immigrants' injuries were often handled off the books, workers and officials say, all but guaranteeing that they will not show up in government statistics. Even fatal accidents of laborers working legally were sometimes omitted from the Olympic count.
#81
Just a decade ago, the small, resource-rich nation of Ecuador was embarking on a bold transition to hydroelectric power.
It was one of many South American countries betting that their abundant rivers, harnessed by dams, could satisfy growing energy needs - and help drive economic expansion, lifting millions from poverty and leading the way into a new era of prosperity.
Today, those grand designs are colliding with a warming climate.
Ecuador has been pummeled by an extraordinary drought, exacerbated by global warming, that has engulfed much of South America, drying rivers and reservoirs and putting the country's power grid on the brink of collapse.
Since September, daily energy cuts have lasted as long as 14 hours. Highways have turned an inky black; entire neighborhoods have lost running water, even internet and cell service. One industry group says the nation is losing $12 million in productivity and sales for every hour power is out.
"My country is adrift," said Gabriela Jijón, 46, who owns an ice cream shop outside Quito, the capital.
But Ecuador is not alone. In recent years, abnormally dry weather in places around the globe has sent rivers to extreme lows, draining hydropower resources in places like Norway, Canada, Turkey and even lush Costa Rica.
Zambia, highly dependent on hydropower, faced daily power cuts of up to 21 hours this year. Parts of China, also reliant on water for energy, suffered lengthy outages starting in 2022.
In all, more than one billion people live in countries where more than 50 percent of their energy comes from hydroelectric plants, according to Ember, a global energy research institute. Yet, as the climate warms and extreme weather events like drought become more common - and more severe - many scientists expect hydropower to become a less reliable energy source.
More than a quarter of all hydroelectric dams are in places with a medium to extreme risk for water scarcity by 2050, according to a 2022 study in the journal Water.
Ecuador is, in many ways, a bellwether for what other nations may face.
Some nations, including the United States and Ecuador's neighbors in South America, Colombia and Brazil, have backup plans to switch to alternative sources, including fossil fuels, when hydropower runs low.
But the cost of ensuring extra energy capacity is prohibitive, and many countries are unprepared for worsening conditions, said Nicolas Fulghum, a senior analyst at Ember.
With stop lights out for long stretches, dozens of Venezuelan migrants living in Ecuador now direct traffic, an informal job that earns them a few coins from passers-by. Abel Oviedo, 30, is one of them.
China is a growing concern, Mr. Fulghum said. In 2022 and 2023, dry conditions in the country's southwest prompted blackouts that closed factories and severely disrupted commerce.
The country gets just 13 percent of its power from water - compared with Ecuador's 70 percent - but because China is so large and so connected to the global economy, future droughts are likely to have "cascading effects," Mr. Fulghum said.
In Ecuador, President Daniel Noboa, facing re-election in February, pledged recently to end power cuts this month, claiming that energy the country is purchasing from nearby Colombia, as well as other factors, would ease the power crisis.
But energy experts expect any relief to be temporary. Unless there is a deluge - about two weeks of heavy rain are needed to raise reservoir levels - regular energy outages could endure until at least 2026, said Iván Endara, a professor at the Coastal Higher Polytechnic School, an Ecuadorean university.
To truly end to the crisis, he said, years of work must be put into diversifying and building out the country's energy sector.
The Promise of Hydropower
In 2007, a new leftist president, Rafael Correa, swept into office in Ecuador, promising to build a modernized, more socially and environmentally conscious nation.
The country had already suffered through a monthslong energy crisis in the 1990s, and then again in 2009, both prompting blackouts and caused by drought.
Responding to rising electricity demands from a growing population, and hoping to use electricity to supercharge his vision for the nation, Mr. Correa's government invested billions of dollars to expand its energy output.
By harnessing water, not burning oil or gas, to produce electricity, this new energy matrix was supposed to help mitigate the effects of global climate change - not make Ecuador a victim of it.
Borrowing heavily from Chinese lenders, Mr. Correa's government launched almost a dozen new hydroelectric projects, massive dams that became emblematic of the country's transformation.
ne project in particular, a $2.2 billion dam known as Coca Codo Sinclair, was plagued with design flaws, critics said, as well as allegations that some officials took bribes in exchange for awarding the dam contract to the company Sinohydro.
Yet between 2007 and 2017, when Mr. Correa left office, the country's overall energy generation capacity rose about 60 percent, according the Ministry of Energy and Mines.
Other changes included a new constitution that eventually placed the energy sector almost entirely under state control - something critics later said led to mismanagement and inefficiency.
Most of the growth came from hydroelectricity, with some increases in fossil fuels, wind and solar capacity.
Then, when Mr. Correa left office, the capacity to generate electricity fell flat.
The former president, in an interview from his current home in Belgium, said climate change was "not the problem" at the root of Ecuador's energy crisis.
Instead, he blamed the three governments that followed his for failing to maintain hydro and thermoelectric power plants, and faulted them for not building out other energy sources, leading to decreased capacity and the inability to keep producing electricity in adverse conditions.
"I have never seen such rapid destruction of a country in times of peace," he said.
(Mr. Correa left Ecuador in 2017, and was convicted in 2020 on corruption charges unrelated to energy projects.)
In interviews, two of the three presidents who succeeded Mr. Correa - Lenin Moreno and Guillermo Lasso - said that they did invest in expanding capacity, noting that energy projects often take years to come online. But both noted that they faced economic headwinds that Mr. Correa did not - first, falling oil prices that greatly contracted the country's economy, which is highly dependent on petroleum exports.
Then came the pandemic. Mr. Lasso described his challenge as: "Do I buy vaccines or do I invest in thermoelectric plants?"
But Mr. Moreno, who took office in 2017, said the "principal" problem was the country's "excessive focus on hydroelectric energy" which "left the system extremely vulnerable to climate change phenomena."
Mr. Lasso, who took office in 2021, cited something else: He called Ecuador's political culture a main driver of the crisis, describing it as shortsighted and prone to neglecting long-term solutions to major challenges - including energy security.
Representatives for the current president, Mr. Noboa, declined to comment.
The Effects of Everyday Outages
With lights out for long stretches, particularly at night, Ecuadoreans described rushing home from work, instead of stopping for shopping or social events, fearful of what could happen on darkened streets.
The lesson in Ecuador, said Mr. Fulghum of Ember, is not that nations should abandon hydropower, but that they should invest heavily in alternatives - preferably clean energy alternatives like wind and solar - that can compensate for water shortages.
He cited Brazil and Chile as nations that have done just that.
In Ecuador, power cuts began last year, then became daily occurrences in September, shutting businesses and sending entire industries into crisis.
Uncertainty has gripped the country, exacerbated by a booming narcotrafficking industry that has fueled violence.
Just a few years ago, Ecuador was making great strides in reducing poverty.
Now "everything that was achieved in those years of prosperity is being lost," said Mónica Rojas, dean of economics at the University of San Francisco in Quito.
Those affected by the energy crisis include educational institutions like the Triangle Foundation, in Quito, which provides schooling and job training to people with Down syndrome, moving them into employment.

Students in a classroom at the Triangle Foundation, in Quito, which provides services to people with Down syndrome and other disabilities. The group must pay thousands of dollars for diesel to power a donated generator.
Many families are poor, and in some cases students become the primary breadwinners. Nancy de Maldonado, a founder, said getting a child into the program is "the biggest lottery" a family can win.
Yet the organization budgeted $3,000 for energy costs this year, far short of the $15,000 needed to pay for diesel to power a donated generator. Tuition may need to be raised, shutting out some of the poorest families.
In Salcedo, a town south of Quito, Ms. Jijón, the ice cream shop owner, is not the only one struggling to keep products cold.
The town lives or dies on ice cream - it has become famous for selling layered cream-and-fruit pops invented by Franciscan nuns.
But when energy cuts began, Helados de Salcedo, one of the town's biggest companies, immediately lost tens of thousands of dollars' worth of product, with employees watching it melt before their eyes.
Then the small shops that sell their ice creams stopped ordering - store owners couldn't keep them cold.
By November, Paco Hinojosa, 58, the company's general manager, figured they could survive "another three months."

Soledad Albán, the production chief at Helados de Salcedo, an ice cream maker and one of Salcedo's biggest companies. Workers have watched as tens of thousands of dollars' worth of ice cream melted.
Perhaps those most deeply affected are the poorest Ecuadoreans, with no safety net.
In northern Quito one evening, the last glimmer of daylight shone in Katherine Mantilla's bedroom. On her bed, propped on cinder blocks, Ms. Mantilla, 19, cradled her newborn daughter, Kenya, in her arms.
Kenya was born in October, a month into the energy crisis, with breathing problems. Doctors had sent her home with an oxygen tank and instructions to use it at regular intervals. But Ms. Mantilla had lost her income.
She used to sell sandwiches at traffic stops, making $8 a day. Then the stoplights went out, and people just raced through intersections, paying no mind to the young women with armfuls of snacks.
Now, Ms. Mantilla had no money to refill the oxygen tank - not even enough to buy a flashlight.
At night, she said, she was gripped by a fear that Kenya's chest would stop rising and she wouldn't notice.
"If she stops breathing," said Ms. Mantilla, "if she changes color, how will I see it?"
#82
The International Court of Justice will begin hearing arguments on Monday in a major case on how international laws can be used to protect the climate as global warming accelerates. It is the first time that the court, which is the United Nations' highest judicial body, has taken up the climate issue, and a key issue at play is whether big polluters can be sued for failing to slow down climate change.
The court, a 15-judge body in The Hague that deals with disputes among nations, is holding the hearings over the next two weeks in response to a request submitted last year by the United Nations General Assembly.
The General Assembly asked the court to give its opinion on two questions: What obligations do governments have under international law to protect the Earth's climate system from greenhouse gases? And what are the "legal consequences" if governments have failed in their obligations and "caused significant harm"?
The climate crisis has long been the subject of warnings from scientists and three decades of global negotiations to reduce harmful emissions, and the hearings follow on the heels of the latest United Nations climate summit, known as COP 29.
That summit, which ended last week in Baku, Azerbaijan, focused on negotiating finance for transitioning from fossil fuels to clean energy and helping poorer countries improve resilience to 
Who will address the hearings?
The judges are seeking a wide range of views, and more than 100 countries and international organizations have asked to speak. They include small island nations threatened by sea-level rise; countries that are working to phase out fossil fuel use with clean energy; and major producers who depend on income from coal, oil and gas.
The United States is among those planning to take the floor, as are Australia, Britain, China, India, Iran, Russia, Saudi Arabia and South Africa. The court will also hear from groups as varied as the World Health Organization and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
Last week, the judges were briefed on current climate assessments and future risks by authors who contributed to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a scientific body convened by the United Nations.
To influence the court, lawyers involved with the case say, countries cannot just make habitual political speeches. Instead, they will have to come up with legal arguments for why they continue to subsidize fossil fuels and pump ever greater volumes of harmful greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.
Who hopes to benefit from the hearings?
Although the General Assembly engaged the court, the idea for the hearings initially came from a group of law students from Vanuatu and other Pacific islands. Others then joined in from the Caribbean and Asia.
The group argued that small nations like theirs had done little to contribute to a heating planet but were nonetheless suffering catastrophic consequences of climate change. Such nations have run up high debts to cope with cyclones, crumbling infrastructure, loss of arable land and vanishing fish stocks as seawater warms. A number of islands will simply drown.
That vocal group has since expanded into an alliance with developing countries to use all means available for their struggle, in particular the law.
They have concluded that as long as climate accords are based on voluntary commitments, their nations will never get the aid to which they feel entitled as victims of the major polluting countries. They argue that the list of broken promises and reneged-on commitments is long, and that suing for damages is the best way to be taken seriously.
Although the court's advisory opinion on the legal questions will be nonbinding, the court's stature means that the opinion will be an authoritative statement to provide guidance for or put more pressure on policymakers.
It may also influence national courts where activists are increasingly taking on governments and energy companies over climate damage.
What do international laws say about climate change?
Many countries have robust national laws to deal with pollution and the protection of nature and threatened species. But international law dealing with the climate system as a whole is scant, though it is slowly growing.
The Paris Climate Agreement of 2015 is a binding treaty, but it asks countries only for voluntary steps to keep down global temperatures. It has no mechanism to enforce its targets or pay for loss and damages resulting from climate change.
Specialists point to the 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea, the United Nations legal framework for the oceans and marine environment that covers 70 percent of the planet.
In May, the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, a specialized United Nations court based in Hamburg, broke new ground by issuing a unanimous advisory opinion that excessive greenhouse gases are pollutants that could irreversibly harm the marine environment and must be cut back. The court said that polluting countries could be held accountable, although it remained vague in saying that richer nations should do more to assist countries with fewer resources.
The I.C.J. judges are expected to take note of that advisory opinion, which had also been sought by the group of small island nations.
In September, Vanuatu and other Pacific islands formally proposed to make "ecocide" a crime before the International Criminal Court, a separate body that tries individuals on charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. But that process may take years.
And the Inter-American Court of Human Rights is expected to set new rules related to climate change soon. Its decision will apply to its 20 member countries in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Experts caution that international laws may be only a small piece in the giant puzzle of protecting the global climate system. Some argue that the most effective change will come only if the growing clean energy sector becomes bigger and cheaper than the pump of fossil fuels.
When will the court issue its opinion?
The judges have set no date for issuing their opinion, but lawyers involved with the case say they expect it next summer.
#83
The flames and smoke from a burning Mercedes-Benz electric sedan spread rapidly through the underground parking lot of an apartment complex in South Korea this month. The fire damaged almost 900 cars, and 23 people suffered smoke inhalation.
It took firefighters more than eight hours to put out the blaze, which reached temperatures above 1,500 degrees Celsius, according to officials in Incheon, the city near Seoul where the fire broke out around dawn on Aug. 1.
Fires are much less common in electric vehicles than in gasoline-powered ones, and the cause of the Incheon blaze has not been disclosed. But across South Korea, one of the world's biggest car producers, it caught the public's attention because of its scale and intensity, and it raised safety fears that some say could impede the government's aggressive push toward electric vehicles.
One popular secondhand car sales platform, K Car, said that listings by E.V. owners hoping to sell their vehicles had nearly tripled since the fire.
"I know that E.V.s might be the more environmentally friendly choice, but I'm still afraid of it catching fire," said Lee Min, an office worker in Seoul who is hoping to buy her first car. "I got even more scared after seeing the Incheon incident."
News coverage of the fire, and social media's reaction to it, have focused on perceived risks from battery charging, and car makers and government officials have tried to assuage those fears. The municipal government in Seoul said that by the end of next month, it would prevent E.V.s from being fully charged in parking lots beneath residential buildings, limiting them to 90-percent capacity to prevent the risk of overcharging, though some experts have questioned whether that would do much to improve safety.
Some automakers, including Mercedes-Benz Korea, have offered owners free safety checks on their E.V.s and identified their battery suppliers. The German automaker said a Chinese company, Farasis Energy, had supplied the battery in the sedan that caught fire. Farasis did not respond to a request for comment.
"The popularity of E.V.s is going to decrease for the next while," said Lee Ho-Guen, a professor of automotive engineering at Daeduk University in the city of Daejeon. "People are scared."
Before the fire, South Korea's E.V. market had been growing at a clip, accounting for 9.3 percent of new cars in the country last year, according to official data.
The national government has rolled out subsidies for buyers as well as tax breaks for E.V. makers, part of an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by around 40 percent by 2030, compared to 2018 levels. It hopes to end sales of gasoline-powered cars by 2035. The government has spent 371.5 billion Korean won, or about $280 million, to install charging facilities.
There have been almost 200 electric vehicle fires across the nation over the past six and a half years, according to government figures. That does not include a fire at a lithium battery factory near the capital that killed 23 workers in June, one of the country's worst industrial disasters in recent years.
Lithium, which is used in most E.V. batteries, can store large amounts of energy in a small space, but it burns intensely when on fire. There are no government-approved extinguishers designed for lithium battery fires, according to South Korea's national fire department.
Electric vehicles catch fire less frequently than other types of vehicles. For every 100,000 E.V.s, there are just 25 fires, compared to 1,530 for gasoline-powered vehicles, according to the United States' National Transportation and Safety Board. Battery fires, however, can be much larger and more damaging, Mr. Lee, the engineering professor, said.
Despite the statistics, fires have raised concern about E.V.s' safety in many countries, including the United States. The Incheon blaze resonated in South Korea because many people live in apartment blocks and share underground parking lots.
Security video footage released by news outlets shows smoke coming out of the Mercedes EQE 350 before it burst into flames. The vehicle, which was on a floor with a capacity for about 2,000 cars, was not plugged in at the time, according to the local fire department.
Hundreds of residents have been temporarily moved out of the building while repair work takes place.
Days after the fire, Mathias Vaitl, the president of Mercedes-Benz Korea, said the company would pay 4.5 billion won, or around $3.4 million, to affected residents. Mercedes-Benz said in a statement it was deeply sorry to all impacted by the fire, but did not comment on the cause.
The German automaker released a list of its battery suppliers in the wake of the fire, and other companies followed suit, including Hyundai and Kia. Over the weekend, the government said it would require all automakers to disclose their battery suppliers by early next year.
The government discussed comprehensive measures to alleviate public concern and ensure that such a mass fire doesn't happen again, a spokeswoman said at a televised briefing on Sunday.
Mr. Lee, the engineering professor, said the government needed to upgrade charging infrastructure and fire-response systems. He said that a 90-percent cap on battery charges, on its own, was unlikely to prevent all fires.
"It's like asking a smoker to smoke two cigarettes instead of three," he said.
#85
Their windows broken and roofs smashed, the abandoned homes in an otherwise bucolic valley carpeted with cornfields and orchards near Serbia's border with Bosnia look like the wreckage of the Balkan wars of the 1990s.
But the houses are actually the casualties of a current struggle freighted with geopolitics: where and how Europe can get the materials it needs to make electric car batteries and break its dependence on sources like China.
The houses, in the Jadar Valley in the west of Serbia, were bought up years ago by the minerals behemoth Rio Tinto, which planned to tear them down and start mining and processing lithium, a crucial element for electric car batteries. Its plans stalled by vociferous opposition, the company left the properties to crumble.
The project has been supported by the United States and the European Union, which is in desperate need of lithium to meet its climate goals. But it has generated a wave of public fury in Serbia, where fears that the mine will poison the air and water have set off huge street protests against President Aleksandar Vucic.
Europe has plenty of lithium and more than 20 mining projects for the mineral at various stages of development. But none have started producing battery-grade lithium. The giant project in Serbia was aimed at filling that hole.
"There is no green transition in Europe without this lithium," said Chad Blewitt, the head of Rio Tinto's Serbian operations, adding that the company planned to invest more than $2.55 billion in the project.
The Serbian government gave preliminary approval in 2019, but, worried about losing votes during protests against Rio Tinto before a 2022 election, canceled it.
Under pressure from the European Union, which Serbia aspires to join, the government changed its mind in July, allowing Rio Tinto to revive the project. The British-Australian multinational says it has already invested nearly $600 million to buy land, dig 500 exploratory holes, commission studies and make donations to the local soccer club and other entities.
Serbia's mining minister, Dubravka Djedovic Handanovic, said mining probably would not start for another two years, but once it did, lithium from the Jadar Valley would allow Serbia to manufacture batteries and electric cars, providing about 20,000 jobs.
A report by The Hague Center for Strategic Studies estimates that if it is to reach its goal of carbon neutrality by 2050, Europe will need 60 times more lithium by that year than what it imported in 2020 from China and elsewhere.
Michael Schmidt, a lithium expert at Germany's Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources, said Europe might be able to reach its targets without supplies from Serbia. But, he said, "the Serbian project is one of the largest, and that is why it is so significant." He added, "We need each and every project to reach targets."
The success of the projects ultimately depends on the price for lithium on the global market and whether companies like Rio Tinto can recoup their investments. The price has collapsed over the past 18 months as Chinese demand has slackened and its output soared.
The proposed mine in Serbia has not only provoked fury among farmers, environmental activists and ordinary citizens, it also has become a proxy battleground in the West's efforts to extract the country from the orbits of Russia, its traditional ally, and China.
Geoffrey R. Pyatt, the U.S. assistant secretary of state for energy resources, this past week cheered the Serbian lithium project on social media as "an opportunity to contribute to the green transition at home & abroad."
For those who view Serbia as a partner for the United States and Europe rather than a Moscow-aligned and authoritarian regional bully, Mr. Vucic's support for Rio Tinto, along with his assent to Serbian-made weapons being sold covertly to Ukraine, is evidence he was serious about disengaging from Russia.
Russia has strong support among hard-line Serb nationalists, and some diplomats and analysts say Moscow has been stirring the unrest over the mine. Mr. Vucic, however, has said Moscow told him that the West is orchestrating the protests because it wants to topple him.
"Unfortunately, it has become a political fight, a big political battle," said the mining minister, Ms. Djedovic Handanovic.
Among those taking part in recent nationwide demonstrations against Rio Tinto have been leaders of People's Patrol, an ultranationalist group aligned with Moscow. Social media accounts known for spreading Russian disinformation have been active in promoting horror stories about the planned lithium mine.
But leftists and middle-of-the-road pro-Europeans have also joined the protests, chanting opposition to a project that has become a lightning rod for diverse grievances against the government.
"He sold out Kosovo but is not going to take away our clean water," read a sign denouncing Mr. Vucic that was held by Angela Rojovic, 25, at a recent protest in Belgrade, the capital. She said the president had not done enough to defend the interests of Serbs living in mainly ethnic Albanian Kosovo.
And she said Mr. Vucic was sacrificing Serbia's environment to serve Europe's climate goals. "I don't need green cars," she said. "I need green apples and green grass."
In Gornje Nedeljice, a Jadar Valley village that sits atop Europe's biggest known deposit of high-grade lithium, the project has alienated Mr. Vucic's previously stalwart rural base.
Dragan Karajcic, the district head for a cluster of small settlements around the proposed mine, said he was a member of Mr. Vucic's governing party but still joined a local protest group hostile to Rio Tinto and the government.
"We are not trying to bring down the government," he said. "The government is doing that itself."
Goran Tomic, a native of Gornje Nedeljice who now lives mostly in Germany, said he understood the need to combat climate change by moving away from gasoline-powered cars, but he was still appalled that his older brother had agreed to sell his house and land to Rio Tinto.
"He allowed himself to betray himself for money, and in doing that he betrayed us all," Mr. Tomic said, sitting on his front stoop with his mother, who was also angry but proud that two of her three sons refused to sell to Rio Tinto.
Its assurances over safety undermined by past misbehavior, Rio Tinto has tried to counter what it dismisses as lies and disinformation spread on social media by recently disclosing preliminary findings of an environmental impact assessment. It was carried out by Serbian and foreign scientists who debunked much of what protesters believe about lithium mining.
Wild claims on social media included one last week that an exploratory hole bored by Rio Tinto was belching radioactive fluid.
Mr. Vucic, rattled by the scale and intensity of public anger, has also veered into fear-mongering, claiming protests were led by "anarchists, Marxists and hidden fascists."
The real leaders, however, were people like Nebojsa Petkovic, a villager from Gornje Nedeljice and an activist who traveled to Belgrade to help organize a demonstration on Saturday, Aug. 10, that attracted tens of thousands of people.
"Let the Germans save the planet," Mr. Petkovic said. "We need to save ourselves."
Eager to get mining started, Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany and executives of Mercedes Benz, which has big electric vehicle plans, visited Belgrade last month to applaud the Rio Tinto project.
Germany's role, however, has only amplified opposition.
Mr. Karajcic, the district head, said he was infuriated by German assurances that the mine would be safe, recalling Nazi atrocities in a nearby town in 1941 that the Germans had promised would be left unhurt.
He said his great-grandfather fought nearby against Austrian troops during World War I. "He fought to keep our land, and now I'm supposed to give it away to Rio Tinto. No way," he said. "There is a lot of bad blood in these hills."
#86
The sudden death of Iran's president, Ebrahim Raisi, opens a new chapter of instability just as the increasingly unpopular Islamic Republic is engaged in selecting its next supreme leader. Mr. Raisi, 63, had been considered a prime candidate, especially favored by the powerful Revolutionary Guards.
Even before the helicopter crash that killed Mr. Raisi, the regime had been consumed with internal political struggles as the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, 85, the longest-serving head of state in the Middle East, is in declining health.
But given the Islamic Republic is facing internal protests, a weak economy, endemic corruption and tensions with Israel, analysts expect little change in Iran's foreign or domestic policies. Ayatollah Khamenei has set the direction for the country, and any new president will not alter it much.
The system is "already on a trajectory to make sure that the successor of the supreme leader is completely in line with his vision for the future of the system," said Ali Vaez, the Iran director at the International Crisis Group.
He described "a pretty hard-line vision" in which crucial areas of foreign policy, like support for regional proxy militias and developing components for a nuclear weapon, are not going to change.
Whoever is chosen as the next president, Mr. Vaez said, "has to be someone who falls in line with that vision, a subservient figurehead."
Ellie Geranmayeh, an Iran expert with the European Council on Foreign Relations, also sees continuity on major foreign policy issues, including regional affairs and the nuclear program. "These files have been under the control of Iran's supreme leader and the I.R.G.C.," she said, referring to the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, "with Raisi having little influence during his tenure as president."
"Raisi was certainly useful to some I.R.G.C. factions," Ms. Geranmayeh said. Unlike his predecessor, Hassan Rouhani, Mr. Raisi, a more conservative loyalist, "did not challenge the I.R.G.C. either on domestic or foreign policy issues," she said.
But criticism of Mr. Raisi's performance as president had already raised questions about whether he was the best candidate to succeed Ayatollah Khamenei, she said.
With previous supreme leaders arguing that hereditary rule under the shah was illegitimate, "they would be hard-pressed to sell hereditary leadership to the Iranian people now," said Shay Khatiri, a senior fellow at the Yorktown Institute, a research institution focused on superpower competition.
Mr. Raisi's death may give Mojtaba Khamenei an easier path to succeed his father. But the internal workings of Iran's religious and domestic politics are deliberately mysterious, and the decision in the end will be made by a council of senior clerics known as the Assembly of Experts. Though Mojtaba Khamenei, himself a cleric, is considered to be a favorite of the clergy, the assembly may yet decide to pick one of their own or have more of a collective leadership.
His father, the supreme leader, had worked hard "to reduce the unpredictability within the system by grooming President Raisi to potentially be his successor, and now all of those plans are out of the window and they're back to the drawing board," Mr. Vaez said. "They have to organize an internal election" for the next supreme leader inside the system "at a time that the regime is facing a severe crisis of legitimacy at home."
As for the public election for the next president, supposed to take place within 50 days, there are worries about public indifference.
The regime has become increasingly divorced from the population, Mr. Vaez and others said, by cracking down on public dissent, including on women protesting the Islamic dress code and a lack of freedoms.
By disqualifying "any candidate who is even a loyal critic of the system," elections have become a farce, Mr. Vaez said. "The Islamic Republic has really focused on ideological conformity at the top rather than legitimacy from below."
That has produced enormous political apathy, with fewer than 10 percent of voters in Tehran turning out for parliamentary runoff elections just 10 days ago. "All the government cares about now is a smooth transition to the next supreme leader," Mr. Vaez said.
A new administration, Ms. Geranmayeh said, "will inherit a broken economy and an even more broken social contract with a population that has been deeply frustrated with the Islamic Republic."
Externally, the challenges are steep as well. Iran and Israel attacked each other directly in April, even as Israel is already fighting Iran's military proxies - Hamas in Gaza and, less vividly, Hezbollah in Lebanon. Iran also sponsors the Houthis in Yemen, who have attacked shipping in the Red Sea.
Iran has worked to avoid a larger war between Hezbollah and Israel, and a direct conflict with Israel is also something the Islamic Republic can ill afford.
It has been holding intermittent talks with the United States on de-escalating the regional conflict and on the future of its nuclear program. The death of Mr. Raisi threatens to complicate those talks, too.
"While there will be no love lost in D.C. for Raisi, instability in Iran would come at a bad time," said Trita Parsi, an Iran expert at the Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, making "escalation prevention all the more difficult."
Since the collapse of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal in 2018, when Donald J. Trump, then the president, pulled out of the arrangement, Iran has moved to enrich uranium very close to bomb grade, causing tensions, too, with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Iran has turned openly toward closer alignment with American rivals, especially Russia and China, which once supported the international effort to constrain Iran's nuclear program but do so no longer.
Both countries have been buying Iran's oil, despite international sanctions, helping to keep the Iranian economy barely afloat. Iran has been a crucial supporter of Russia's war against Ukraine, selling it drones of all kinds as well as ballistic missiles in return for help with missile design, analysts say.
Increasingly, some Iranian officials speak of the program as a nuclear deterrent, even as the government insists that Iran's program is purely civilian, and Ayatollah Khamenei has denied that Iran is seeking a nuclear weapon.
The Revolutionary Guards Corps is considered increasingly powerful in both nuclear and regional affairs, taking advantage of Ayatollah Khamenei's weakened health and the regime's fear of internal instability. The larger question is whether the Revolutionary Guards, already a major economic player domestically, will become more openly powerful politically as well.
#87
A climate scientist and former mayor, Claudia Sheinbaum was inaugurated on Tuesday as the first woman to lead the country.
Claudia Sheinbaum took office on Tuesday, the first woman and Jewish person to lead Mexico in the country's more than 200-year history as an independent nation.
"For the first time, we women have arrived to lead the destinies of our beautiful nation," Ms. Sheinbaum said during her inauguration ceremony on Tuesday. "And I say we arrived because I do not arrive alone. We all arrived."
Thousands packed into Mexico City's main square on Tuesday afternoon to wait for Ms. Sheinbaum to address supporters.
Licet Reséndiz Oropeza, a resident of Tijuana, traveled more than 50 hours by bus to be in the capital on the day a woman became the country's president for the first time.
"It's something historic," said Ms. Reséndiz Oropeza. "It's a joy that I cannot begin to describe."
The leftist former mayor of Mexico City, Ms. Sheinbaum triumphed in June elections with the largest margin of victory since Mexico transitioned to democracy and a sweeping mandate to follow through on her promise to continue the social policies of her predecessor and political mentor, Andrés Manuel López Obrador.
But while Ms. Sheinbaum is stepping into office with considerable power in her hands, she will also have to contend with a multitude of forces that may constrain her, analysts say.
She is inheriting a complex set of challenges: the largest budget deficit in decades, a deepening security crisis, the largest wave of migration in recent history and a fractious political movement that has moved to profoundly redesign the judiciary, among other institutions.
Ms. Sheinbaum is known as a capable executive, but not as a transcendent political talent like her predecessor. Mr. López Obrador built an entire movement largely on the force of his charisma, reinforcing his enormous influence with a regular morning news conference that he used to keep his allies in line and back adversaries into a corner.
Now the Morena party that he founded has a near hegemonic grip on the nation's political system, with an effective supermajority in congress, and control over the vast majority of state legislatures and governorships.
But as it has expanded, the party now encompasses a mishmash of disparate factions that don't always share the same goals or vision. Some analysts wonder whether Ms. Sheinbaum will be able to corral such a restive coalition.
"She no longer has the control of the party as López Obrador did," said Fernanda Caso, a political analyst and journalist, adding that rather than unifying the party, Ms. Sheinbaum would at best be able to discipline it. "She is going to constantly live with internal power struggles within her party."
There are also questions over how much influence the larger-than-life Mr. López Obrador will exert over his protégé. His allies have filled her cabinet and his son, known as Andy, was recently named to one of the most powerful positions in the party.
Ms. Sheinbaum has been close to the outgoing president for decades and has insisted that she will have the same priorities and policies as Mr. López Obrador not because she is his puppet, but because she genuinely believes in him.
"Being ideologically tied to López Obrador doesn't mean that you will be manipulated by López Obrador," said Viri Ríos, a political analyst.
"She is exercising a leadership that is perhaps more quiet than what we are used to in Mexican macho politics," Ms. Ríos said, "but that leadership is there."
Here is what to know about Mexico's new president.
Who is Claudia Sheinbaum?
A trained scientist with a Ph.D. in energy engineering, Ms. Sheinbaum (pronounced SHANE-balm) spent years straddling academia and politics, where her career has closely tracked Mr. López Obrador's rise. Her first foray into government was as the environment minister of Mexico City when Mr. López Obrador became mayor in 2000.
Years later, she participated in a United Nations panel of climate scientists that was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize. When Mr. López Obrador became president, she won office as mayor of Mexico City, one of the largest metropolises in the hemisphere.
Ms. Sheinbaum, 62, describes herself as "obsessive" and "disciplined." She is known as an exacting boss with little patience for laziness, someone who can squeeze every last drop out of her staff.
The descendant of Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jews who emigrated to Mexico in the 20th century, Ms. Sheinbaum is also the country's first Jewish president - a watershed moment for some and a trivial detail for others who have rarely seen her discuss her heritage.
Analysts say Ms. Sheinbaum's administration will try to blend her technocratic and pragmatic approach to governing with Mr. López Obrador's populist rhetoric.
At times, she pulled away from his policies. During the pandemic, she tested aggressively while he trusted in good-luck charms; when fighting crime, she invested in intelligence and the police while he relied on the military.
But during the campaign, she supported many of Mr. López Obrador's most contentious policies, including constitutional changes that critics say would undermine democratic checks and balances. She has, as a result, battled the perception among some Mexicans that she could just be a pawn of her mentor.
What challenges will she confront?
Ms. Sheinbaum will face pressure to show progress in the fight against increasingly powerful drug cartels, which retain their sway over large swaths of Mexico. While homicides declined modestly during the López Obrador administration, reports of extortion and disappearances have shot up since 2018. Killings, including spates of mass murders, are still near the highest levels recorded.
In recent weeks, violence between warring factions of the Sinaloa Cartel has caused a spike in deaths and kidnappings in northwest Mexico, bringing people's lives to a standstill in cities such as Culiacán.
Ms. Sheinbaum will have little financial maneuvering room to fulfill her campaign pledges. Mexico's budget deficit is nearing 6 percent of gross domestic product, the largest shortfall in the past 24 years. Pemex, the state-controlled oil giant, is now the world's most indebted oil company, requiring multibillion-dollar bailouts.
It will also be up to Ms. Sheinbaum to deal with the consequences of the constitutional amendments that Mr. López Obrador pushed through in the last weeks of his administration. Critics warn that one of them, under which thousands of judges are to be elected by popular vote as soon as next year, could erode judicial independence.
What are her plans?
Besides continuing Mr. López Obrador's infrastructure projects and keeping his popular antipoverty programs, including a yearly increase in the minimum wage, Ms. Sheinbaum comes to office with her own plans.
She has announced that all women ages 60 to 64 will receive a cash payment; currently, old-age pensions are given to anyone 65 and older. She has said most children will receive a stay-in-school scholarship, which would be an expansion of a current social program. And starting next year, she said, 20,000 doctors and nurses would begin visiting the homes of senior Mexicans, an effort to reverse the massive drop in access to public health care seen in the past few years.
Ms. Sheinbaum also wants to expand renewable energy infrastructure and increase green technology. At the same time, she has vowed to rescue Mexico's massively indebted oil company and support a costly $16 billion oil refinery that remains far from fully operational.
Then there's security. Ms. Sheinbaum has signaled that she will allow the armed forces to keep the power Mr. López Obrador granted them during his administration. But she also plans to create a new intelligence agency, with the ability to investigate criminal cases, and replicate the law-and-order approach she adopted in Mexico City.
#88
Germany started the year with Berlin's streets choked with tractors and farmers blaring horns in furious protest of proposed budget cuts. Then train engineers walked off the job to demand better pay, stranding commuters and carloads of freight and leaving the country angry and gridlocked.
The same could be said for the state of the German economy. Last year it contracted 0.3 percent, official figures showed this week, making it not only the largest economy but also the slowest growing among the 20 countries using the euro. Industrial production has fallen five months in a row.
"The economy is at a standstill in Germany," said Siegfried Russwurm, the president of the Federation of German Industries. "We don't see any chance of a rapid recovery in 2024."
Since it was rebuilt after World War II, Germany has been Europe's main driver of economic growth, becoming an industrial powerhouse known for vast factories and fine-tuned engineering.
But now its automakers must compete with relatively cheap electric cars from China, and it vies with the United States to attract tech giants. There is a growing realization that Germany has not been successful updating its industry with sufficient flexibility and digital know-how to remain competitive.
As the economy sputtered last year, the government was nearly paralyzed by bickering among members of the three parties that make up Chancellor Olaf Scholz's ruling coalition. Then came a budget crisis in November, causing the government's popularity to plunge in polls.
Many of those disputes were over how to fill a 17 billion-euro ($18.5 billion) gap in the budget after the country's highest court in November threw out the previous spending plan. That decision was driven by the country's so-called debt brake, a law enshrined in its Constitution to keep public deficits low.
But geopolitical crises and new industrial rivalries in China and the United States have weakened demand for German-made products abroad. Germany grew rich in recent decades by selling its goods to the world, racking up a trade surplus that strained ties with the United States under President Donald J. Trump.
The restrictions on borrowing are preventing the government from making badly needed investments in public infrastructure, from schools and public administration to railways and energy networks.
"Writing that into the Constitution gave it the binding effect that was intended at the time," when debt soared after reunification with East Germany and spending rose after the financial crisis in 2008, Monika Schnitzer, a government adviser, told the podcast "Hessischer Rundfunk." "But nobody thought it through to the end about what it could mean in a serious crisis, that there is not enough room to maneuver."
Ms. Schnitzer, who heads the German Council of Economic Experts, is among the economists urging lawmakers to adjust the mechanism. But that would mean changing the Constitution, which requires a two-thirds majority in Parliament, implying a level of cooperation between the opposition and the government that is unthinkable in the current political environment.
That means, for this year and the next, Germans will instead find themselves faced with cuts on government spending, affecting a raft of subsidies to farmers and filmmakers alike. Travelers will face a new tax on airline tickets. Incentives for solar power and electric vehicles will be curtailed. Money to improve rail links will also be cut.
Economists have warned that taking a red pen to spending instead of raising taxes - a move vehemently opposed by the fiscally libertarian Free Democrats, the smallest party in Mr. Scholz's coalition but the one that controls the finance ministry - will be a further drag on the economy.
The spending cuts could not come at a worse time for Germany's stumbling economy. They have prompted the country's three leading economic institutes to cut their economic growth forecasts for 2024 to between 0.6 and 0.9 percent, down from a range of 1.1 to 1.4 percent predicted in September.
Within the Group of 20 nations, which include developed and developing economies from around the world, Germany is expected to come in at the bottom, with only Argentina seeing weaker growth projected for the year, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Slowing growth in China has also reverberated in Germany. Although China's economy grew 5.2 percent in 2023, it is undergoing significant change as the country's leaders try to wean it off property and construction, long pillars of growth.
Not everything is negative, economists say. Double-digit inflation fell to 3.8 percent in December, and high interest rates are expected to begin easing later this year. That, coupled with an increase in wages won after labor actions like the train engineers' strike, could encourage German consumers to spend more, albeit at the risk of fanning further inflation.
But that will not be enough to fix Germany's structural problems. One is a lack of domestic energy sources: The country relies on imports to sustain the industries that have formed the backbone of its economy for decades. They include car making, steel and the chemicals industry, which reported that production fell 11 percent last year.
Overall, Germany's industrial sector is struggling to cope with not only the high price of energy but with the transition to a future that is more nimble and more digital. Plans to digitize the country's prized but paperbound bureaucracy, which traces its roots to 19th-century Prussia, largely stalled last year, according to an official index.
The country failed to reach its goal, set in 2017, of requiring all public offices to offer digital services by the end of 2022. That infrastructure lags miles behind the rest of the European Union, where on average 56 percent of homes are connected to fiber-optic cables, compared with 19 percent of German homes.
In the private sector, companies complain that the amount of paperwork required to build or expand hampers growth.
Germany recently showed that it can move quickly when it has no choice. After Russia cut off flows of natural gas in 2022, the government approved the procurement and construction of several terminals to bring in liquefied natural gas.
Within months, Germany was able to fill natural gas storage facilities to the brim while it encouraged companies and consumers to conserve fuel.
"Germans are so risk-averse, it's almost a psychological thing," said Sander Tordoir, an economist at the Center for European Reform, a think tank in Berlin.
He pointed to the country's growing green tech sector as a bright spot in the economy, those industries that develop technology for environmental protection, renewable energies and the efficient use of resources.
Semiconductor makers are another source of investment. Intel and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company plan to build factories in eastern Germany, helped by subsidies worth €20 billion, which have survived government budget cuts.
Economists have argued over the wisdom of spending so much to attract such deep-pocketed companies, worth billions in their own right. But the idea that such firms are needed to help bring German industry into the 21st century is not in doubt.
"The Germans need to think about what kind of economy they want," Mr. Tordoir said. "But once they make the jump to deregulate and let go of fiscal straitjackets, there is a lot of potential in the German economy. It's just not being used."
#89
Germany's Green Party entered the government in 2021 with the best election showing of its history, establishing itself for the first time as a true mainstream party with the potential of one day even yielding a chancellor.
It won five cabinet positions in the three-party coalition, including the powerful economy and foreign ministries. It seemed to have a strong mandate to advance the country's economic transition toward a greener future.
What a difference two years make. And a Russian invasion of Ukraine. And rising energy costs. And a host of missteps that some even within the party concede has stalled the Greens' momentum.
Today the Greens are widely viewed as a drag on the government of the Social Democratic chancellor, Olaf Scholz, which one poll gave a mere 19 percent approval rating. The Greens have drawn withering attacks from even their own coalition partners. To their opponents, the Greens have overreached on their agenda and become the face of an out-of-touch environmental elitism that has alienated many voters, sending droves to the far right.
In important state elections this month, all the parties in the governing coalition took a beating, but the Green Party was singled out for special attack as populists and the far right surged.
"They've made the Greens public enemy No. 1," said Sudha David-Wilp, director of the Berlin office of the German Marshall Fund, a research institute.
The reversal of fortunes for the Greens is the story of a party that has long struggled to transcend its roots as a niche, environmentalist party to become a more pragmatic political force capable of broader appeal to lead the country.
Formed in 1980, the Greens built their base by taking a relatively hard line on environmental issues and climate change. Previously their pinnacle of power was as a coalition partner in the government of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder from 1998 to 2005.
But in Mr. Scholz's government, which also includes the pro-business Free Democrats, the Green presence has been weightier, and the party's stumble raises questions about whether the German economy, Europe's biggest, can make progress toward its ambitious climate targets.
The Greens hold the high-profile portfolio of foreign minister, under Annalena Baerbock, 42. They also have the important ministry for economic affairs and climate action, under Robert Habeck.
Mr. Habeck, 54, who has a doctorate in literary sciences and has written novels, political books and stories for young adults, was once one of the country's most popular politicians. But he has seen his standing fall along with his party's. Today the Greens are polling at about 14 percent, around what they got in the last national election but well below the stronger ratings of their early months in power.
Mr. Habeck declined a request for an interview. But in remarks to the German media, he has conceded he misjudged the mood of crisis fatigue in the country after a winter of coping with surging energy prices in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"The feeling of great time pressure has dissipated; instead of the fear of a loss of gas supplies, other concerns have come to the fore," he told the newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. "This change wasn't so clear to me at first, and maybe that's why I didn't do everything right in the situation."

Initially, Mr. Habeck and the Greens enjoyed significant successes, urging a hawkish stance against Russia. They were instrumental in passing a popular 49-euro, all-you-can ride ticket to encourage people to take public transportation and in pushing through changes to encourage investment in green energy.
They also skillfully helped navigate Germany away from its dependence on Russian natural gas. The government restricted temperatures in public buildings to save energy. It reopened coal plants. And it rapidly constructed terminals so Germany could import gas from sources other than Russia.
Those steps were welcomed by Germans as pragmatic and somewhat unexpected from a party traditionally committed in the long run to phasing out fossil fuels.
"The Greens were on the way to being a party of the political middle," said Manfred Güllner, director of the Berlin-based Forsa Institute, a polling firm. "Now the Greens have landed back to exactly where they were for a long time: a small party that caters to its followers that is far removed from being a major party."
Indeed, what was pragmatic to many Germans was seen as a betrayal of the party's long-cherished principles by many of the Greens' rank and file.
As the Greens have pivoted back to their traditional agenda, the party has bumped up against the limits of what many Germans are willing to sacrifice at a time of economic insecurity stemming from the war in Ukraine, higher inflation and the lingering effects of the Covid pandemic.
The shine started to come off, Mr. Güllner said, when the Greens fought against keeping nuclear power plants running past a deadline for shuttering them that had been previously agreed on. But Exhibit A in voter disillusionment was a bill that Mr. Habeck promoted requiring that newly installed home heating systems run on at least 65 percent renewable energy starting next year.
The mainstream conservative opposition, the Christian Democrats, attacked the heating law, or Heizungsgesetz, as climate policy "with a crowbar." The tabloid Bild called it "Habecks Heiz-Hammer," or "Habeck's heating hammer." The Greens were easily caricatured as a party oblivious to people's struggles.
"They squandered a lot of their success because they seemed detached from ordinary people," said Markus Ziener, a visiting fellow at the German Marshall Fund. "Instead of setting incentives, they were seen as telling people what's right and what's wrong, as wanting to lecture people."
Experts said the law, which was passed in weakened form in September, has helped fuel the growing popularity of the far-right Alternative for Germany party, or AfD, which is polling at more than 20 percent, around the highest in its history.
Like other far-right parties across Europe, the AfD has added opposition to climate policies to its agenda, alongside issues like immigration, seeking to capitalize on the economic anxieties of working people.
"What happened with the Heizungsgezetz was all of a sudden literally the Greens were knocking on people's doors, asking, 'Show me your heating, and it has to change,'" said Andrea Römmele, a political scientist at the Hertie School in Berlin. "It was too fast."
Omid Nouripour, one of the Greens' co-chairs, said that the party could cope with the recent setbacks and that it had come a long way from the years when it polled single digits and seemed to be stuck in permanent opposition.
The troubles should not make the Greens pause, he insisted. "We can't slow down," he said in an interview. "It's always been a tough game."
Other Greens, too, said they did not consider the recent experience a crisis, though they acknowledged the need to reach beyond the party's traditional voters, who tend to be better educated and financially comfortable.
"The key thing is going to be - the challenging thing, but also the beautiful thing - is to convince people who don't yet think the way we do," said Katrin Göring-Eckardt, a longtime leader in the party from eastern Germany who is now a vice president of Parliament.
Some say the Greens can still recover. Bernd Ulrich, a journalist with the newspaper Die Zeit who is writing a book on green politics, said that Mr. Habeck, in particular, would be key to whether the party could restore its stature.
"It's the deepest crisis in the Greens' history," he said. "Robert Habeck is the most talented politician in Germany by far. He has become a scapegoat. But he can get them past it."
#91
In theory, the world's largest industrialized democracies have agreed to stop using fossil fuels within a little over a quarter-century and to switch to new sources of power such as solar and wind as fast as they can.
But as leaders of the Group of 7 gathered in Hiroshima, Japan, this weekend for their annual meeting, some countries were wrangling over whether to loosen commitments to phase out the use of carbon-emitting fuels like gas and coal in time to avert the worst effects of global warming.
The final communiqué from the summit, released on Saturday afternoon, included language sought by Japan that blesses continued investment in certain types of coal-fired power plants that the Japanese government is helping to finance. But leaders only modestly modified language from last year's meeting that supported some new investment in natural gas infrastructure. Germany, which pushed for the endorsement in 2022 as it scrambled to replace Russian gas imports in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine, had sought to broaden the wording this year.
The behind-the-scenes battle underscored the political, economic and practical challenges that many Group of 7 nations have run into as they seek to accelerate a global energy transition with trillions of dollars in government incentives.
Jarred by the invasion of Ukraine, countries in Europe are seeking to quickly secure sources of natural gas to keep the lights on. At the same time, countries like Japan and even to some degree the United States are seeking to protect longstanding investments in the fossil fuel industry at home or abroad.
The United States and its allies have moved quickly over the last year to incentivize investments in wind and solar power, electric vehicles, technology to aid energy efficiency and other measures meant to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and slow global temperature rise. At the same time, they have taken what officials call temporary but crucial measures to keep fossil fuels flowing to global markets, both to avert an electricity crisis in Europe and to hold down gasoline prices around the world.
Those efforts include a price-cap measure for Russian oil that was being hailed as a success at the meetings this weekend. The cap effectively allows Russia to continue exporting oil, but at a discount; keeping its crude on the market has helped to hold down global gasoline prices.
But tensions have flared in the coalition over efforts by some countries to lock in their access to fossil fuels for decades to come. According to three people familiar with the discussions, the German government, concerned about securing enough energy to power its economy, pushed in Hiroshima to loosen the language that leaders released last year just months after the start of Russia's war on Ukraine.
The 2022 communiqué endorsed public investment in gas, but only in "exceptional circumstances" and as a "temporary response" to relieve nations from dependency on Russian energy. Any expansion, the statement said, should not derail nations from their pledges to slash greenhouse gas emissions. The 2023 statement repeated that language and did not go much further.
"It is necessary to accelerate the phaseout of our dependency on Russian energy, including through energy savings and gas demand reduction, in a manner consistent with our Paris commitments," it read, referring to the landmark Paris climate agreement, "and address the global impact of Russia's war on energy supplies, gas prices and inflation, and people's lives, recognizing the primary need to accelerate the clean energy transition."
Britain and France fought the German effort. The Biden administration found itself caught between defending the president's own ambitious climate change agenda and aiding other United States allies intent on increasing their access to fossil fuels.
The sudden promotion of such fuels has alarmed environmental activists who say that endorsing public investment in gas is incompatible with the pledge nations made in Glasgow, Scotland, in 2021 to keep global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius, or 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, above preindustrial levels.
"The G7 must clearly state how they intend to keep the 1.5 degree Celsius limit alive and spur on a global shift to clean energy," said Mary Robinson, a former president of Ireland. "This is a moment. The climate crisis is upon us."
Britain and France argue that the immediate energy crisis has passed and that Europe has averted a potential power shortage this winter. Germany has already built its first liquefied natural gas terminal and is hoping to build more.
Japan also has an interest in further natural gas development. During a meeting of environment ministers from Group of 7 nations in Sapporo, Japan, last month, Japanese representatives pushed the group to permit further investment in developing gas fields in Asia, according to environmental activists.
An official in the Japanese foreign ministry who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that Japan, which relies on energy imports, needed natural gas for its energy security and also wanted to help other countries use liquefied natural gas as a way to transition away from coal.
Kaname Ogawa, director of the electricity infrastructure division at the Ministry of Economics, Trade and Industry, said that Japan was committed overall to reducing its reliance on natural gas, but that it had sought new contracts to import gas as others had expired. Liquefied natural gas accounts for more than a third of Japan's power generation, and close to 10 percent of that gas comes from Russia.
Japan already pushed hard at the Sapporo meeting to prevent the environment ministers from committing the Group of 7 to a firm date for phasing out coal. Unlike the other countries in the grouping, Japan, which derives close to 30 percent of its energy from coal, refused to sign on to a 2030 date for bringing that down to zero.
"Our electricity structure differs significantly from other countries," Mr. Ogawa said. "We will introduce renewables and we will increase non-fossil fuels as much as possible, but at the same time, in order to maintain our electricity security, we have to continue to use" coal.
The government is financing efforts to use ammonia in coal-fired plants to make them more efficient, a technology it has marketed as "clean coal." The communiqué on Saturday specifically cited ammonia and said such efforts "should be developed and used, if this can be aligned with a 1.5 degrees Celsius pathway, where they are impactful as effective emission reduction tools to advance decarbonization across sectors and industries."
Activists worry that Japan's timeline for developing its ammonia technology is too long for it to help with climate goals.
"The new technology cannot come in a timely manner in order to achieve a 2030 coal phaseout timeline," said Kimiko Hirata, founder of Climate Integrate, an advocacy group. "It will be developed and deployed only after 2030, so this technology is not compatible with the 1.5 degree goal."
That goal will not be achievable if countries continue to develop new sources of fossil fuels, according to the International Energy Agency. The atmosphere has already warmed 1.1 degrees above preindustrial levels and is hurtling toward that planetary boundary.
In a "clean energy economy action plan" released on Saturday, the Group of 7 acknowledged "that there are various pathways according to each country's energy situation, industrial and social structures, and geographical conditions."
A senior U.S. official said the Biden administration was insisting on "no climate backsliding" in the gas investment language. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said public funding for gas infrastructure should be allowed only in "narrow circumstances" and should still be consistent with countries' plans to stop adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere before 2050.
#92
With the recent oil price recovery, Calgary has awakened from a long economic slumber, and its new mayor wants to help the city reduce its dependency on oil by becoming a leader in new sources of energy.
Jyoti Gondek has a Ph.D. in urban sociology, was a member of the city's planning commission and a city councilor. She promotes policies that put her at odds with the city's conservative establishment, which is entwined with the oil industry.
Oil's last collapse, in 2014-15, gave Calgary, a city of 1.3 million, a problem now facing most cities: finding new uses for empty downtown office towers. As has been the case with many cities since the start of the pandemic, Calgary has also found rising numbers of people, many with severe mental health and drug problems, living on its streets.
I met with Ms. Gondek, the city's second consecutive mayor of South Asian heritage, earlier this week at city hall, days after the city and the province had announced that they would both contribute a total of 867 million Canadian dollars to build a new arena for the Calgary Flames. The announcement was widely seen as a move to bolster the re-election hopes of the premier, Danielle Smith, who often stymies Ms. Gondek's political agenda, in the current provincial election campaign. Our conversation has been edited for length and clarity.
What do people get wrong about Calgary?
Folks that don't live here and haven't visited here have been sold a stereotype of who we are. It's sort of this cartoon image of Calgary. And I think we've done a remarkably poor job of telling our story properly as Calgarians.
The narrative developed that we were only interested in oil and gas - and that was about it. We've let it get away from us and we're trying to regain it now. The investment that we need here is too important. We need to be talking about who we really are.
How has Calgary's growing ethnic diversity changed the city?
It's the third most diverse city in Canada, and yet a lot of people don't know that about us. But if you spend any amount of time here, it's quite evident.
The capacity building that many ethnic communities have done allows newcomers to come here and actually settle here and not just make this a landing place. People come into Calgary and they stay.
That comes about with a couple of things. There's the economic advantage. If it's easier to get a job, the better the income levels are, the more affordable your housing is - all those factors certainly play a role. But when you see people who look like you, when you're out somewhere and you hear your mother tongue, when you are embracing a cultural activity and you find a piece of your own history in it - all that makes you feel like this place understands you, that you belong here. It's taken a long time to cultivate that.
There have been many oil- and gas-related booms and busts. Is that cycle doomed to continue?
We are now at a remarkable point where true energy transformation is possible, but we need to make some pretty significant investments. So we have an energy transition center in the city that is looking at some big, bold moves in partnership with a lot of our oil sands companies. We have folks who are actively looking at hydrogen and critical mineral strategies.
So we've got a lot of really big interest in the future of energy production. While we were a hub for oil and gas, we continue to be a hub for the new face of energy.
#93
ODESA, Ukraine - The giants catch the wind with their huge arms, helping to keep the lights on in Ukraine - newly built windmills on plains along the Black Sea.
In 15 months of war, Russia has launched countless missiles and exploding drones at power plants, hydroelectric dams and substations, trying to black out as much of Ukraine as it can, as often as it can, in its campaign to pound the country into submission. The new Tyligulska wind farm stands only a few dozen miles from Russian artillery, but Ukrainians say it has a crucial advantage over most of the country's grid.
A single, well-placed missile can damage a power plant severely enough to take it out of action, but Ukrainian officials say that doing the same to a set of windmills, each one hundreds of feet apart from any other, would require dozens of missiles. A wind farm can be temporarily disabled by striking a transformer substation or transmission lines, but these are much easier to repair than power plants.
"It is our response to Russians," said Maksym Timchenko, the chief executive of DTEK Group, the company that built the turbines, in the southern Mykolaiv region, the first phase of what is planned as Eastern Europe's largest wind farm. "It is the most profitable and, as we know now, most secure form of energy."
Ukraine has had laws in place since 2014 to promote the transition to renewable energy, both to lower dependence on Russian energy imports and because it was profitable. But that transition still has a long way to go, and the war makes its prospects - like everything else about Ukraine's future - murky.
In 2020, 12 percent of Ukraine's electricity came from renewable sources, barely half the percentage for the European Union. Plans for the Tyligulska project call for 85 turbines producing up to 500 megawatts of electricity, enough for 500,000 apartments - an impressive output for a wind farm, but less than 1 percent of the country's prewar generating capacity.
After the Kremlin began its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, the need for new power sources became acute. Russia has bombarded Ukraine's power plants and cut off delivery of the natural gas that fueled some of them.
Russian occupation forces have seized a large part of the country's power supply, ensuring that its output does not reach territory still held by Ukraine. They hold the single largest generator, the 5,700-megawatt Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, which has been damaged repeatedly in fighting and has stopped transmitting energy to the grid. They also control 90 percent of Ukraine's renewable energy plants, which are concentrated in the southeast.
The postwar recovery plans Ukraine has presented to the European Union - which it hopes to join - and other supporters includes a major new commitment to clean energy.
"The war speeded us up," said Hanna Zamazeeva, the head of the Ukrainian government's energy efficiency agency.
But energy and economic analysts say much of the hoped-for green transition will have to wait until after reconstruction begins and foreign investment returns, and could depend on Ukrainian success on the battlefield.
"Developing renewables, particularly wind and solar, depends on Ukraine successfully recapturing these territories" now held by Russia, the Center for Strategic and International Studies reported in December.
Southern Ukraine's potential for wind power was clear at the project's opening ceremony this month when hot, dry air gusted through a wheat field dotted with huge turbines. Amid snack-covered tables, their linens flapping in the wind, the gathered diplomats and journalists had to turn their backs to the blowing dust.
The three-bladed turbines at Tyligulska, made by the Danish company Vestas, are huge, carving circles in the air more than 500 feet in diameter. Each windmill weighs about 800 tons.
The first turbine was built in February 2022, the month the invasion began, and then DTEK froze construction. In August, Evheniy Moroz, the company's site manager, received a call from his director, who asked if they could resume work without international contractors, who had all evacuated, taking their heavy equipment with them.
"I started calling the guys I worked with to find out where they are, what contractors are still operating, and whether there are any cranes able to lift 100 tons still in Ukraine," Mr. Moroz said.
He found just one, and it needed renovation, but this crane was the only hope. The builders modified the crane for the job and started calling it their "little dragon." With it, construction restarted.
Builders worked in open fields about 60 miles from the front lines, hiding in a bunker when air-raid sirens sounded. Missiles fired from Russian ships in the Black Sea roared overhead but did not target the site. Cruise missiles flew lower than the turbines, trying to evade radar detection by Ukrainian air defenses.
They are a modest step toward energy security and a green transition, but the new windmills mean something more immediate for Ukraine, said Vitaliy Kim, the governor of the Mykolaiv region.
"The construction of this wind power plant is a sort of a signal that it is possible to build during the war," he said. "Such projects have to exist for the independence of our country."
#94
For decades, the phrase "Made in Germany" signaled cutting-edge automotive technology and design. But now German automakers are falling behind in the global race to produce more electric vehicles, and some executives are using a new catchphrase to describe how quickly they need to catch up: "China speed."
The term reflects the rapid transformation of the Chinese car industry into a battery-powered juggernaut. And that speed was on display Monday at I.A.A. Mobility, a massive auto show in Munich, with newcomers from China stealing the show.
BYD, an all-electric Chinese carmaker that overtook Volkswagen as China's best-selling brand this year, unveiled a sleek, new sedan and a sport utility vehicle to applause from a packed crowd.
"I think the Europeans are just pretty much petrified of how the Chinese will perform in Europe," said Matthias Schmidt, an independent analyst of the electric-car market based in Berlin.
The show arrives at a precarious time for the German auto industry, the largest in Europe, and for the German economy more broadly. Once a critical driver of the country's economy, German automakers have instead become a drag. In June, production in the auto industry shrank by 3.5 percent compared with the previous month, weighing on the country's overall industrial production, which declined by 1.5 percent.
The doldrums extend beyond automakers. Economic output in Germany is stagnating, weighed down by the high cost of energy and raw materials, a lingering effect of Russia's invasion of Ukraine last year.
Prominent German companies, including Volkswagen and the chemical giant BASF, have delayed expansion plans or announced that they will build in regions with enticing incentives, including China and North America. Persistently high inflation is eating away at Germans' purchasing power and contributing to pessimism from consumers and businesses alike.
After Germany's economy dipped into a recession late last year and early this year, its growth was flat from April to June. Last week, the country's central bank, the Bundesbank, said that economic output was expected to "more or less stagnate again in the third quarter of 2023."

Among eight advanced economies studied by the International Monetary Fund, Germany's was the only one projected to shrink this year, leading some economists to recall the specter of the late 1990s when, hampered by record-high unemployment and the cost of reunifying East and West Germany, economists declared the country the "sick man" of Europe.
The government in Berlin is rushing to respond. Last week, it approved 32 billion euros, or almost $35 billion, in corporate tax cuts over four years to help revive production.
The government also proposed cutting Germany's notorious mounds of paperwork for businesses, for example by accepting digital, not paper, copies of official documents in an attempt to drag it into the digital age. A recent survey of 500 companies showed that fax machines remained in use as the most secure form of communication.
Compare that to HiPhi (pronounced "hi-fi"), a luxury car company from China that was founded in 2019. It is now producing the third version of its tech-heavy electric vehicles, with doors that glide open at the push of a button, and lights on the outside and inside of the doors that can flash and change colors. The cars are now selling in Germany and Norway, starting at 105,000 euros, or $113,000, and were on display at the auto show.
The ability to produce the car so quickly is linked to a different approach to the auto business, said Mark Stanton, the company's chief technology officer.
"The fear of failure is huge and that mentality really becomes a roadblock in your everyday process of what you do," Mr. Stanton said. "We completely wipe that away."
One of the leading factors worrying companies in Germany is the persistently high price of energy.
For decades, Germany prided itself on its steady supply of power that kept factories producing steel and cars humming. But the source of that power was natural gas piped in from Russia, and Germans refused to consider other suppliers.
After Moscow halted the flow of natural gas to Germany a year ago as a consequence of Berlin's support for Ukraine, the price of gas more than quadrupled, forcing many companies to scale back production. Although prices have fallen, they remain nearly twice as high as they were in 2021.
The whiplash has cost companies that require high amounts of energy, like chemical makers, a sense of security for long-term planning, an annual survey of businesses showed. The study, conducted by the German Chambers of Commerce and Industry, found that confidence in the government's energy policy was at its lowest point in more than a decade.
"After the energy price shock at the end of last year and the relatively mild winter, companies are deeply concerned about future developments," said Achim Dercks, the organization's deputy general manager.
That fear is causing many German industrial firms to reconsider previously planned investments. Earlier this year, Volkswagen decided to scrap plans to build a second battery factory in Germany.
The company is already building one battery factory in Salzgitter, near its headquarters in Wolfsburg, and another in Valencia, Spain. This spring, Volkswagen announced that it had chosen Ontario as the site for its first battery plant outside Europe, lured by lucrative incentives and industrial power prices roughly one-third cheaper than in Germany.
Lowering energy prices by just 1 cent per kilowatt-hour can translate to an annual difference in cost of up to 100 million euros when producing batteries for electric vehicles, Oliver Blume, Volkswagen's chief executive, said in an interview with the German public broadcaster ZDF.
"If we look at the prices we are currently being offered in North America or in other regions of the world, Germany is a long way off," Mr. Blume said.
Volkswagen is not alone in looking abroad to expand its electric vehicle production capacity. Earlier this year, BMW, which is based in Munich, announced it would invest €800 million in Mexico to produce high-voltage batteries and its new fully electric models. Those cars are expected to go into production in 2025 at the company's plant in Hungary.
In China, German automakers' failure to meet the growing demand for battery-powered vehicles left a vacuum, which domestic automakers quickly moved to fill, producing affordable and attractive electric cars that are taking over their home market.
From left, Herbert Diess, then the chief executive of Volkswagen; Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany; and Hans Dieter Pötsch, the chief executive of Porsche, at the site of Volkswagen's battery factory in Salzgitter, in 2022. Credit...Ronny Hartmann/Agence France-Presse - Getty Images
Volkswagen is making moves to improve its position in China. Last month, it announced that it would invest $700 million for a nearly 5 percent stake in XPeng, a Chinese start-up that makes electric vehicles, in an effort to help it meet the demands of the Chinese market.
But now Chinese automakers have their eyes on Europe, where gas-fueled cars are to be banned in 12 years.
At the auto show on Monday, traditional German automakers presented plans for expanding production of all-electric vehicles in the coming years, but manufacturers from China revealed new models they were bringing to the European market.
"Europe is a strategic market for BYD," said Michael Shu, managing director of BYD Europe. Last month, he said, his company became the first automaker in the world to deliver five million fully electric or hybrid plug-in vehicles.
Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, director of the Center Automotive Research in Duisburg, Germany, described this year's auto show as a "Zeitenwende," or turning point - the same term used by Chancellor Olaf Scholz when pronouncing Germany's transition in foreign policy after Russia invaded Ukraine.
"A Zeitenwende, that sees Europe becoming an interesting market for Chinese electric vehicles," he said. "The competition will be tougher."
#95
When it was first announced in 2017 that Australia's oldest power station, Liddell, would close, the news set off a political firestorm.
On the heels of the abrupt closure of another coal plant which caused energy prices to spike, the announcement sparked fears that shuttering Liddell, which opened in 1971 and accounted for 10 percent of New South Wales' energy, would have a similar effect.
Politicians accused its owner, AGL Energy, of trying to "short the market," while locals in the Hunter Valley expressed concerns about job losses. The Coalition government went as far as to attempt to broker a deal for the power plant to be sold to a competitor willing to extend its operating life, and the news became a flashpoint for a debate about the future of Australia's electricity system and renewable energy.
But today, when the final unit of the power station was switched off, it was in a very different environment.
Workers have either been transitioned to another power station across the road or retired. The fears about the impact of the energy grid are muted - although some concerns remain that the closure will lead to higher electricity prices at peak times. AGL's plans to transform Liddell into an "industrial energy hub" include building a battery on the site and looking into solar, wind and hydrogen power.
And it comes as Australia is making a seismic shift toward renewable energy and shakes off decades of reliance on coal-fired power. Since 2017, renewable energy doubled from 16.9 percent of Australia's total energy generation to 35.9 percent in 2022, according to the Clean Energy Council. The governing Labor Party has committed that by 2030, 82 percent of the energy Australia generates will be from renewables.
"Australia has had and still does have one of the dirtiest power systems, but it's moving quite rapidly," said Chris Briggs, the director of the Institute for Sustainable Futures at the University of Technology Sydney.
But as that transition accelerates, experts warn that Australia needs a clearer national plan to manage its exit from coal power.
"The approach of governments has been that they will try to accelerate or facilitate the buildout of renewables storage and transmission - the sort of good news side of the story - but no one really wants to put their hand up and be responsible for job closures - that's politically contentious," Dr. Briggs said. "And so we're missing the other side, which is the plan to acknowledge and put a timetable against the closures, and manage them in a more organized fashion."
It might be tempting to look at Liddell's orderly closure and assume that the system is working, he said, "but the risk is, as you get later in this decade, if the government's plan to get to 82 percent really does come to fruition and we're on track for that, then you could end up having a rush, a cluster of coal plants closing at similar times at a relatively short notice."
There's also the possibility that the owners of these plants will decide to delay closures to take advantage of energy price spikes that may occur when other power stations close, he added: "So the other owners sit back, hoping that someone else will close first and they might get a little bit more revenue out of the plant. But, of course, that militates against getting the notice of the timing that we want to get to be able to manage this transition."
Similarly, the Australian Council of Trade Unions has called for a national authority to be established to manage the transition to renewable energy, which would coordinate with government bodies to ensure that affected workers have education, employment and redundancy options.
"We cannot leave this to the market," the union said in a statement. "A just transition plan is crucial for workers and their communities, such as those around the Liddell Power Station, who are living through the impact of change."
#96
rans Timmermans, the European Union's climate chief, will leave his position in Brussels to become a candidate in coming elections in the Netherlands, the European Commission announced on Tuesday.
Mr. Timmermans's immediate departure comes as the European Union is focusing on meeting climate goals, reducing emissions on the continent as well as transitioning to clean energy.
Mr. Timmermans served as the executive vice president for the European Green Deal, a set of proposals that aims to make the E.U.'s climate, energy, transport and taxation policies fit for reducing net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 percent by 2030, compared with 1990 levels.
Last month, European lawmakers approved a key element of the Green Deal that would require member nations to restore 20 percent of natural areas within their borders on land and at sea.
"Climate change is happening even faster than feared, battering our planet with no region left unaffected," Mr. Timmermans said in a speech in July. "Radical, immediate, and transformative action must be taken by all of us."
Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, praised Mr. Timmermans in a statement, saying he helped make strides toward "meeting the E.U.'s objectives to become the first climate neutral continent." She also said he helped raise "the levels of climate ambition globally."
Ms. von der Leyen has appointed Maroš Šefcovic, a member of the European Commission from Slovakia, to succeed Mr. Timmermans as the executive vice president for the European Green Deal. Ms. von der Leyen also temporarily assigned the responsibility for climate action policy to Mr. Šefcovic, until the appointment of a new member of the commission of Dutch nationality, according to an announcement.
On Tuesday, Mr. Timmermans became the lead candidate for a left-wing alliance of the Green Party and the Labor Party, which are forming one bloc in the Netherlands's parliamentary elections scheduled for Nov. 22. In that role, Mr. Timmermans could possibly become the Dutch prime minister. Members of the two parties overwhelmingly chose Mr. Timmermans as the lead candidate on Tuesday, according to Dutch media.
Mr. Timmermans was scheduled to address members of the left-wing parties on Tuesday night as leader for the first time, according to the parties.
"He is the right person to face the big challenges we stand for: protecting social security, tackle the climate crisis and restore trust in politics," Attje Kuiken, the leader of the Dutch Labor Party in the House of Representatives, wrote on X, formerly Twitter. Ms. Kuiken has, like multiple other politicians since the government collapsed last month, announced her departure from Dutch politics.
It's not Mr. Timmermans's first foray into Dutch politics. He has served as a member of Parliament for the Dutch Labor Party, as well as minister of foreign affairs from 2012 to 2014.
The Green Deal has angered farmers on the continent, including in Mr. Timmermans's native Netherlands. Last year, Dutch farmers protested against new goals and an announcement that some of them would have to shutter their farms to reach the E.U.'s climate goals, saying that they felt disproportionately targeted.
The Dutch government collapsed in July after the parties in its ruling coalition failed to reach an agreement on migration policy. Other issues had been adding stress to the fractured coalition, including climate goals that aim to drastically reduce nitrogen emissions in the country, goals that have been partially set by the European Union.
The Netherlands will soon have its first new prime minister since 2010, when Mark Rutte came into power. Mr. Rutte decided not to run again and said he would leave politics once a new coalition is in place after the November elections.
Mr. Rutte's departure from Dutch politics raised questions for the Netherlands, as well as the European Union, where Mr. Rutte found a stage to advance his country's agenda: rules-based free trade and commerce, fiscal prudence, liberal social values.
Who will take Mr. Rutte's place as prime minister uncertain. The Farmer Citizen Movement, a Dutch pro-farming party that swept local elections in March, has been ahead in the polls, an indication of people's dissatisfaction with mainstream political parties.
On Sunday, Pieter Omtzigt, a popular Dutch politician who has been critical of Mr. Rutte, announced the creation of his new party, New Social Contract. A Dutch poll from this summer predicted that Mr. Omtzigt's party could win as many as 46 seats in the Netherlands's 150-member House of Representatives.
#97
The energy crisis prompted by Russia's invasion of Ukraine is likely to speed up rather than slow down the global transition away from fossil fuels and toward cleaner technologies like wind, solar and electric vehicles, the world's leading energy agency said Thursday.
While some countries have been burning more fossil fuels like coal this year in response to natural gas shortages caused by the war in Ukraine, that effect is expected to be short-lived, the International Energy Agency said in its annual World Energy Outlook, a 524-page report that forecasts global energy trends to 2050.
Instead, for the first time, the agency now predicts that worldwide demand for every type of fossil fuel will peak in the near future.
One major reason is that many countries have responded to soaring prices for fossil fuels this year by embracing wind turbines, solar panels, nuclear power plants, hydrogen fuels, electric vehicles and electric heat pumps. In the United States, Congress recently approved more than $370 billion in spending for such technologies. Japan is pursuing a new "green transformation" program that will help fund low-emissions technologies. China, India and South Korea have all ratcheted up national targets for renewable and nuclear power.
Yet the shift toward cleaner sources of energy still isn't happening fast enough to avoid dangerous levels of global warming, the agency said, not unless governments take much stronger action to reduce their planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions over the next few years.
#98
Britain, blanketed by cool, damp weather, has seemed like one of the few places in the Northern Hemisphere not sweltering this summer. Yet a fierce political debate over how to curb climate change has suddenly erupted, fueled by economic hardship and a recent election surprise.
The surprise came last week in a London suburb, Uxbridge and South Ruislip, where the Conservative Party held on to a vulnerable seat in Parliament in a by-election after a voter backlash against the expansion of a low-emission zone, which will penalize people who drive older, more polluting cars.
The Conservatives successfully used the emission zone plan as a wedge issue to prevail in a district they were forecast to lose. It didn't go unnoticed in the halls of Parliament, where even though lawmakers are in recess, they have managed to agitate over environmental policy for four days running.
On Friday, a judge dismissed a legal challenge to expand the zone, clearing the way for it to be implemented in the whole of greater London by the end of August.
Britain's Conservative government is now calling into question its commitment to an array of ambitious emissions-reduction targets. Tory critics say these goals would impose an unfair burden on Britons who are suffering because of a cost-of-living crisis. Uxbridge, they argued, shows there is a political price for forging ahead.
With a general election looming next year, the Tories also see an opportunity to wield climate policy as a club against the opposition Labour Party, which once planned to pour 28 billion pounds, or about $36 billion, a year into green jobs and industries but scaled back its own ambitions amid the economic squeeze.
On Monday, Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said he would approach environmental policies in a "proportionate and pragmatic a way that doesn't unnecessarily give people more hassle and more costs in their lives."
It was a strikingly circumspect statement given Britain's self-proclaimed leadership in climate policy, which goes back to Margaret Thatcher and includes hosting the annual United Nations climate conference in 2021. And it clearly reflected the new political thinking in the aftermath of the Uxbridge vote.
Government officials insist Mr. Sunak is not giving up on a ban on the sale of fossil-fuel-powered cars by 2030. Britain remains committed to a benchmark goal of being a net-zero - or carbon neutral - economy by 2050, which is enshrined in law. But on Tuesday, a senior minister, Michael Gove, said he wanted to review a project to end the installation of new gas boilers in homes.
Even before Mr. Sunak's comments, critics contended that Britain's historically strong record on climate policy had been waning.
The Climate Change Committee, an independent body that advises the government, recently said Britain "has lost its clear global leadership position on climate action." The group cited the government's failure to use the spike in fuel prices to reduce energy demand and bolster renewables. It also noted Britain's consent for a new coal mine, and its support for new oil and gas production in the North Sea.
Last month, Zac Goldsmith quit as a minister with a climate-related portfolio, blaming "apathy" over the environment for his departure, though he was also a close ally of the former prime minister, Boris Johnson. In a letter to Mr. Sunak, Mr. Goldsmith wrote, "The problem is not that the government is hostile to the environment, it is that you, our prime minister, are simply uninterested."
Climate experts said Britain's economic troubles fractured what had been a broad political consensus on the need for aggressive action. The schism isn't just between the two main parties: Even within the Conservative and Labour parties, there are fissures between those who continue to call for far-reaching goals and those who want to scale back those ambitions.
"This used to be an issue of across-party consensus; now it is not," said Tom Burke, the chairman of E3G, an environmental research group. "The Tories have gone out of their way to turn it into a wedge issue, and I think that's a mistake."
In Uxbridge, however, the strategy worked. The district, with its leafy streets and suburban homes, has one of the capital's highest ratios of car dependency. That made plans by London's Labour mayor, Sadiq Khan, to expand an ultra-low-emissions zone to encompass the district a potent issue for Conservatives, who opposed widening the zone.
While the plan aims to improve London's poor air quality, rather than reach net-zero targets, it was vulnerable to accusations that was piling on costs to consumers - in this case drivers of older, more polluting, vehicles.
"It's a really big impact at a time when people are concerned more generally about the cost of living," said David Simmonds, a Conservative lawmaker in neighboring district of Ruislip, Northwood and Pinner. "In the short term, a lot of people who don't have the money to buy an electric vehicle or a compliant vehicle are caught by this."
The surprise Conservative victory also sent alarm bells ringing within Labour. It caused tension between Mr. Khan, who insists the expansion will go ahead, and the party's leader, Keir Starmer, who seemed to want a delay.
"We are doing something very wrong if policies put forward by the Labour Party end up on each and every Tory leaflet," Mr. Starmer said after the defeat. "We've got to face up to that and learn the lessons."
Even before the by-election, Labour had backtracked on its plan to invest billions a year on green industries. It blamed rising borrowing costs, which spiked during the ill-fated premiership last year of Liz Truss. Now, instead of rolling out spending in the first year of a Labour government, the party said it would phase it in.
Labour's fear was that voters would conclude the incoming government would have to raise taxes, which would give the Tories another opening. "Economic stability, financial stability, always has to come first, and it will do with Labour," Rachel Reeves, who leads economic policy for the Labour Party, told the BBC.
Such language is worlds away from a year ago, when Ed Miliband, who speaks for Labour on climate issues, told Climate Forward, a New York Times conference in London, that "the imprudent, reckless thing to do is not to make the investment."
He did, however, also argue that consumers should not carry all the burden of the transition. "The government has to collectivize some of those costs to make this transition fair," said Mr. Miliband, a former party leader.
Climate activists said Labour had made a mistake by highlighting the costs of its plan at a time of tight public finances. But given the broad public support for climate action, particularly among the young, some argue that a debate over which climate policies are the best need not end in failure for Labour.
"Voters want something done," Mr. Burke said. "They don't want to pay the price for it but equally, they don't want the government to say they are not doing anything about climate change."
For all the new skepticism, climate policy is also deeply embedded in the Conservative Party. Mrs. Thatcher was one of the first world leaders to talk about the threat to the planet from greenhouse gases in 1989. A former prime minister, Theresa May, passed the net-zero pledge in 2019, and Mr. Johnson, as mayor of London, conceived the low-emission zone that boomeranged against Labour in Uxbridge, which Mr. Johnson had represented in Parliament, last week.
Alice Bell, the head of climate policy at the Wellcome Trust, noted that some Tory lawmakers were rebelling against Mr. Sunak because they were worried about losing their seats by appearing to be against firm action on climate change.
Extreme weather, she said, would continue to drive public opinion on climate change. While Britain's summer has been cool, thousands of Britons have been vacationing in the scorching heat of Italy and Spain, to say nothing of those evacuated from the Greek island of Rhodes in the face of deadly wildfires.
"I'm wondering if we're going to have some people coming back from holiday as climate activists," Ms. Bell said.
#99
In South Africa, a township's battle over a new mine shows the challenge of a nation dependent on coal, but also desperate to leave it behind.
PHOLA, South Africa - Dozens of cattle farmers swarmed the excavator clawing into a green pasture in South Africa's coal belt, shouting a threat to the man behind the controls: Stop digging, or they would topple the machine.
They were desperate to halt the newest coal mine in Phola, a township in the country's high plains, fearing it would decimate one of the last patches of grazing land for their cattle.
"If it means we'll die for our things, we'll do that," Sifiso Mathibela, one of the farmers, said, referring to his livestock.
Mr. Mathibela and his fellow farmers were in many ways unlikely protesters of coal. Many of them work in the industry - Mr. Mathibela's primary income comes from transporting coal. Their investments in cattle are relatively new, a hedge against the expectation that South Africa cannot run on coal forever.
But as a global climate summit gets underway in Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt, South Africa is proving to be a prime example of how hard it will be for countries dependent on coal to make the transition to cleaner, renewable energy sources.
About 80 percent of South Africa's electricity comes from coal. South Africa, the most industrialized and diversified economy on the continent, has pledged to phase it out. At last year's global climate summit, in Scotland, wealthy nations pledged $8.5 billion to help South Africa shift to energy systems that produce less pollution.
But most coal mining ventures, once run by white-owned conglomerates, have shifted to Black ownership under laws passed after apartheid by the governing party, the African National Congress. With that wealth finally in Black hands, political and environmental analysts are concerned that the A.N.C. and its union allies may be loath to let go of the industry - especially at the urging of Europeans, who profited for generations from South Africa's resources.
While the state-owned power company, Eskom, plans to phase out about half of its coal-fired power capacity over the next 13 years, a government planning document calls for the creation of new coal plants because the current grid is so overwhelmed that there are regular power cuts. The country continues to invest in industries that require coal-generated electricity.
"It's counter to all the things that we've been talking about in terms of South Africa's commitment to reduce emissions," said Nokwanda Maseko, a senior economist at Trade & Industrial Policy Strategies, an economic research institution in South Africa.
President Cyril Ramaphosa has publicly promoted a shift to renewables, but his minister of mineral resources, Gwede Mantashe, has maintained that coal will remain a strong part of the country's energy mix for years to come.
Speaking to the climate summit on Tuesday, Mr. Ramaphosa called on developed countries to shoulder the cost of the shift.
"Our continent only contributed 1 percent of the damage that's been done to the climate, and we believe that the more industrialized countries that are more developed need to live up to the commitment that they have made," he said.
He raised concerns that most of the funding that has been pledged to his country, by a group that includes Britain, France, Germany and the United States, was slated to come as loans. That will only add debt that the country can ill afford, he said, arguing that the country needs grants instead of loans, and that a meaningful transition will require $98 billion over five years.
Leaders of wealthy countries on Monday endorsed South Africa's plan to invest the $8.5 billion - mostly in renewable energy projects.
The battles over coal's future in South Africa are taking place in Phola and other mining towns throughout Mpumalanga Province in the northeast, which produces about 80 percent of the country's coal. Hulking coal-fired power stations dotting the region's flat, rural landscape make South Africa among the world's worst carbon dioxide emitters.
Many of the region's residents are dependent on coal, but also desperate to leave it behind.
Thunderous blasts from mines crack the concrete facades of their homes, while plumes of dust leave their children short of breath. Community objections to mining are often no match for the politically connected coal operations that, residents say, identify and pay local residents to lobby on their behalf. In a country where about one-third of the working age population is unemployed, the companies promise jobs to some, angering those who are left out.
In Phola, a township built for Black coal laborers during apartheid, many of the activists battling mines are not necessarily thinking about saving the planet, but about meeting their basic needs. And for many, coal has not been cutting it.
For all of the money mining companies have thrown around Phola over the years, fundamental conditions have not improved. Many people still live along bumpy dirt roads, some in tin shacks barely bigger than latrines.
Mr. Mathibela, the farmer, 34, grew up in a three-bedroom house built by Eskom. His father worked at a nearby coal-fired power station, and his mother cooked for workers at another plant.
After college, he worked in construction at Kusile, a power station near Phola, which broke ground in 2008 and is now the largest in South Africa. He grew disenchanted with the coal industry after Phola residents were struck with rubber bullets and tear gas in 2010 while protesting a new mine that had failed to bring promised jobs and infrastructure investments.
Yet for all of Mr. Mathibela's anger at coal mines, they remained his best option to make a living while he was growing his herd of cattle. Together with a childhood friend, he started a trucking company four years ago that transports coal between power stations and mines, not unlike the one he is now fighting against.
The cattle farmers in the standoff with the excavator, which happened in December, found reason to celebrate when the man operating the machine heeded their demands and stopped digging.
The victory was short-lived, however.
Under the cover of night a few days later, the machines thundered back to life. The farmers, alerted by shepherds sleeping in the field, raced back to the site, and the standoff began again.
"It's going to be a very, very, very big battle," Mr. Mathibela said. "Is coal more precious than what we have started?"
Officials with that mine, Opsirex, hired a resident of a nearby informal settlement to work as their community liaison officer to sell the potential benefits of the mine to his neighbors. They also asked a traditional chief, Sylvester Mashiyane, to help them lobby government officials to obtain a mining license.
Mr. Mashiyane, who works as a machine operator at a different mine, said Opsirex paid him 8,100 rand, or about $550, in September 2021 for travel expenses to take three busloads of people to rally on the mine's behalf at the mineral resources department. He said he also heard an Opsirex official talk about having paid a City Council member $840 to promote the mine, which the council member denies.
But Mr. Mashiyane said he fought for the mine because he believed the mining officials' pledge to bring jobs and build infrastructure in Phola.
That is not what happened.
About three months after the rally, he said, Opsirex broke ground without ever telling him or presenting a plan to help the community as mining officials had promised.
Opsirex officials did not respond to requests for comment.
In the weeks after Opsirex began digging, the mine's opponents scrambled to find solutions.
They said they held several meetings with Conny Nkalitshana, the mayor of the municipality that includes Phola. Her ultimate message was that the mine had followed the proper procedures and that they needed to accept it. Ms. Nkalitshana did not respond to requests for comment.
The livestock farmers filed a lawsuit in March asking a court to halt Opsirex's operation.
The lawsuit was largely underwritten by Peter Masango, 44, a wealthy farmer who has also built a nest egg from other business ventures - including running a fleet of ambulances that respond to emergencies at mines.
One afternoon, holding court in his house in a gated community near Phola, Mr. Masango floated a proposal to Mr. Mathibela: If mining officials offered 2 million rand - about $113,000 - to each farmer, they should drop their opposition to the mine. Mr. Mathibela nodded in agreement.
But neither this proposal nor the lawsuit went anywhere. A judge threw out the suit in April.
Now, the heavy machinery at the site is rumbling as loud as ever, extracting coal to power South Africa.
With the mine's crater growing, and the grazing land for his livestock dwindling, Mr. Mathibela is wondering whether there is anything left for him in Phola. His grandmother has developed a hacking cough. He fears that his 2-year-old daughter will get sick, too.
And he is already plotting his next business venture: building wind and solar farms.
#100

As Washington seeks to throttle economic ties with Beijing, two powerful engines of the German economy, Volkswagen and the chemical company BASF, are broadening their huge Chinese investments.
Volkswagen, which has more than 40 plants in China, announced a new effort to tailor models to Chinese customers' wishes, with features like in-dash karaoke machines, and will invest billions in local partnerships and production sites. It's part of a theme unveiled by the German automaker last year: "In China for China."
BASF, with 30 production facilities in China, is pushing ahead with plans to spend 10 billion euros ($10.9 billion) on a new chemical production complex that would rival in size its massive headquarters complex in Ludwigshafen, which covers about four square miles.
Throughout Germany, executives are aware such investments run contrary to efforts by the United States to isolate China economically. They counter that revenue from China is essential for their businesses to thrive and grow in Europe.
Martin Brudermüller, BASF's chief executive, said earnings from China allowed the company to effectively offset losses from Europe's high energy costs and stringent environmental rules.
"Without the business in China, the necessary restructuring here would not be so possible," Mr. Brudermüller told reporters at his company's annual earnings conference in February. "Name me just one investment in Europe where we could make money."
Executives at Volkswagen privately concede the automaker is in a similar quandary. High energy and labor costs have left the company heavily reliant on sales from China to help underwrite operations in Europe.
Now ever-closer business ties are coming under scrutiny in Berlin. For months, at the urging of Chancellor Olaf Scholz, a policy proposal has been making the rounds of German ministries aiming to reset the country's relationship with China, its largest trade partner. The aim is to strike a balance between diversifying Germany's ties throughout Asia to avoid dependence on Chinese imports, while acknowledging the importance of doing business with China.
The Biden administration has pledged to make the United States more competitive with China by expanding American infrastructure and manufacturing, rather than negotiating new trade deals. German lawmakers and business leaders have made clear that their relationship with China is more nuanced: open to vigorous trade while trying to diversify into other Asian markets.
It is a policy being developed after a bruising year when Russia shut down natural gas shipments to Germany, a move that reminded lawmakers of the costs of relying on autocratic nations for materials essential to its industrial backbone. In the case of China, a big problem is Germany's dependence on its imports.
Germany depends on China to provide essential technology products, including mobile phones and LEDs, as well as raw materials, including lithium and rare earth elements. These are critical to Germany's plans to make a transition to cleaner energy and transportation.
Such a reliance must be carefully considered as Germany thinks strategically about its future dealings with China, said Katrin Kamin, a director of the Kiel Initiative in Geopolitics and Economics. Reducing its ties anytime soon is not a reasonable option.
"Germany will not be able to simply relax its relations with China in the short term," Ms. Kamin said. "The dependencies are too great for that."
The European Union has had a bumpier relationship with China. A breakthrough trade and investment deal between the bloc and China, a product of years of talks that was approved in 2020, was shelved less than a year later, after Beijing imposed sanctions on E.U. lawmakers for criticizing China's treatment of its Uyghur population. The deal would have made it easier for companies to operate on one another's territory.
Last week, Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, traveled to Beijing with President Emmanuel Macron of France as part of an effort to "rebalance" economic ties with China. She called for the revival of talks about trade, but pointed out stumbling blocks like the support China offers its domestic manufacturers and the restrictions it places on foreign companies.
"China is a crucial trade partner, but E.U. businesses face many discriminatory hurdles," Ms. von der Leyen said after meetings with organizations in Beijing. "European companies have so much to offer China. But they need a level playing field to invest and provide their goods and services."
She told reporters that the stalled trade deal was not discussed in talks with China's leader, Xi Jinping, during the trip.
With foreign trade sales of €297.9 billion last year, China has been Germany's biggest trading partner for seven years in a row. But Germany's trade deficit with China has grown increasingly lopsided, a trend that worsened during the supply chain disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Last year, imports from China expanded by a third, to €191 billion, while exports grew only 3 percent, to €107 billion.
One area where Germany has long dominated ties with China is the automobile industry. German automakers, including BMW and Mercedes-Benz, sell roughly a third of all vehicles they produce in China - exceeding sales in all of Western Europe. But recent data shows that Germans appear to be losing their grip on the Chinese market, especially as the popularity of domestically produced electric vehicles surges.
Auto insurance registration records show that only 2.4 percent of all electric vehicles sold in China last year were made by Volkswagen, while BMW and Mercedes failed to crack even 1 percent, according to the German business daily Handelsblatt. By comparison, German brands continue to dominate the Chinese market for combustion engine vehicles, but their popularity is giving way to E.V.s.
Perhaps ominously, Chinese electric brands, such as BYD and Nio, are entering the German market, posing a threat to German automakers on their home territory.
In a clear sign of his priorities, within months of taking over as the chief executive of Volkswagen in September, Oliver Blume spent weeks touring China and returned vowing to strengthen his company's partnerships there.
"We have to cooperate much more closely with our local partners in order to listen to the customers in the Chinese region," Mr. Blume told reporters at the company's annual earning meeting last month. "This will be part of a strategy for 2030."
A study by the Kiel Institute showed that decoupling from China would be very costly for all of Europe, but especially Germany, given the strength of its economic ties. Calculations by the institute, based on gross domestic product from 2019, showed that Germany could lose income worth more than €131 billion. And it could be even more if China retaliated.
Berlin would like to avoid another round of the upheaval it experienced after Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine, leading to an energy war that cost Germany its affordable supply of natural gas. That will mean continuing to balance economic interests with security concerns, Jörg Kukies, an economic adviser to Mr. Scholz, told a gathering of German and American trade leaders.
"We want to have a positive approach to China," Mr. Kukies said. "Not an anti-China approach."
#101
REMSCHEID, Germany - After decades of heating their homes with relatively cheap Russian natural gas, Germans are facing exorbitant prices for energy. The search is on for an alternative source of warmth that is climate-friendly and free from natural gas.
Enter, the heat pump.
Using a technology that dates to the 1970s, these boxy machines have suddenly been embraced across Germany - so much so that heat pumps are often sold out, and the wait for a qualified installer can last months.
The German government is among the fans.
"This is the technology of the future," Robert Habeck, the minister for the economy, told reporters last month while announcing a government plan to promote heat pumps.
"To achieve our goals, we want to get to six million customers by 2030," Mr. Habeck said.
Heat pumps work like a reverse air-conditioner, using a large fan that draws air past tubes with refrigerant to extract warmth from the outside environment. The cost for the electricity needed to power a heat pump is about 35 percent cheaper than natural gas, according to Verivox, a company that compares energy prices for German consumers. The savings are even greater for those who can run their heat pumps off solar panels.

A heat pump's noise is tested under various conditions, next to a figure equipped with microphones that mimic the human ear.
For Vaillant, a 150-year-old family-owned company in Remscheid that for decades has been a leading maker of gas boilers and furnaces, the push from Berlin comes at the perfect time. Six years ago, the company decided that if it was to remain relevant, it would have to look beyond fossil fuels to a more sustainable, but still affordable, way to heat homes.
"We realized that if an appliance is going to replace the gas heater, it is going to be the heat pump," said Norbert Schiedeck, Vaillant's chief executive.
The bet paid off. Sales of heat pumps in Germany have more than doubled in the past two years, especially as the price of gas has soared.
Yet in 2021, heat pumps accounted for only 15 percent of all heating systems sold in Germany, second to the ubiquitous gas condensing boiler, according to data from the German Energy Agency. Many Germans are still wary of the high purchase and installation price, which at 25,000 to 30,000 euros can run up to three times that of a gas furnace.
To encourage people to make the change, the government is offering subsidies that can cover up to a quarter of the upfront price of a unit, along with subsidies for other energy-efficiency improvements up to a total of €60,000.
Germany lags far behind its European neighbors, where imported natural gas was not as affordable or abundant. Residents of Finland and Norway, which rely more on electricity, have 10 times the number of heat pumps as do Germans, according to Agora Energiewende, a policy institute in Berlin. Even the Netherlands, which sits on its own wealth of natural gas but made a push for the more climate-friendly machines several years ago, has double the number of the units that Germany has.
One of the biggest problems facing the expansion in Germany is a dire lack of qualified mechanics to install heat pumps. This has led to an ever-growing do-it-yourself community, driven by information exchanged in forums and videos online.
When Andreas Schmitz bought a home for his family on the outskirts of Cologne in 2020, he wanted to make a positive change for the climate. That meant installing solar panels on his roof and getting rid of the oil furnace in the basement.
"It wasn't an option for me to continue using gas or oil," he said in an interview from his home overlooking a misty field. "I wanted to get away from fossil fuel."
But when he realized how much it would cost to buy and have a professional install a heat pump, Mr. Schmitz balked. "Even with the subsidies, it was clear that it would be too expensive for me," he said.
A scientist by training who likes to spend his free time tinkering with batteries, he decided to take an air-conditioner unit and convert it to a heat pump for his living room. He has been installing units in other rooms and expects to save at least €2,000 in heating bills this winter.
Although autumn temperatures have been relatively mild, and Germany's natural gas storage facilities are at capacity, the price of natural gas remains double what it was a year ago. Analysts do not expect it to retreat any time soon, and Germans are eager for alternatives.
Vaillant is tackling the need for more heat pump installers by training them itself. Building on a network of plumbers and mechanics who have been working with the company for decades, company officials said they hoped to be able to speed up the wait times for customers.


White pyramids absorb any electromagnetic fields in Vaillant's in-house testing room.
"Installing heat pumps is more complex and complicated than installing a gas unit," said Mr. Schiedeck, the chief executive. "So we have established and built up a very large training center to bring our mechanics up to speed."
Germany figures that it has a shortage of some 175,000 skilled workers, according to the Economy Ministry, and roughly a third of them are needed in jobs linked to its energy transition. They include heat pump and solar panel installers and workers to add insulation to homes or maintain wind turbines.
Another obstacle to the widespread use of heat pumps has been their noise. German regulations aimed at limiting noise pollution have led to numerous legal spats between homeowners who installed heat pumps and their neighbors fed up with the constant hum of the machines.
Aware of the problem, German manufacturers have been fine-tuning their machines to make them quieter. Vaillant has altered the angle of the blades and cut zigzagged notches into their edges, testing the results in an acoustics room on the premises of their factory.
Even with the German industry ramping up production, manufacturers are still struggling to procure parts caught up in the supply-chain slowdown.
Mr. Loitzsch is changing the way he heats his home "to do my part to contribute to the fight against climate change."
Oliver Loitzsch decided this year that he wanted to update the heating system in his home in western Germany by replacing his 32-year-old furnace and water heater with a hybrid system that would combine a heat pump with conventional natural gas heating.
"I wanted to do my part to contribute to the fight against climate change," he said.
In February, he placed an order for a unit made by another family-owned German company, Buderus. For months, he simply waited. In August, he got word that some parts were ready, and several weeks later, a section of pipe, a few wires and a transmission box arrived.
He is still waiting for the heat pump to be delivered.
Buderus said it was working to meet demand but struggling to get components. The company does not expect the situation to improve in the short term.
For Mr. Loitzsch, who ran a gas and water installation business for more than 25 years, the one bright spot is that he won't have to worry about installation - he has help lined up, and he has had several months to study the instruction manual.
#102
In fact, Europe is divided about how the war should end. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe, with their memories of Soviet occupation, want Russia defeated and driven back from all of Ukraine's sovereign territory, including Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014. They argue that the war has underscored the necessity of NATO and the trans-Atlantic alliance and the primacy of the United States as the ultimate guarantor of Europe's freedom and security.
The countries of what Donald H. Rumsfeld as defense secretary called Old Europe - including France, Germany, Italy, Belgium and Spain - support Ukraine but are anxious about the continuing costs. They don't expect Ukraine to take back Crimea, and they see the inevitability of a negotiated solution and the durability of Russia as a neighbor whose own insecurities must somehow be assuaged for a lasting peace. While New Europe sees security as "against Russia," Old Europe, best articulated by Emmanuel Macron, the French president, still sees security as with Russia.
The dilemma remains hypothetical, however, since President Vladimir V. Putin has shown no interest in compromise or serious peace talks, at least to this point. It's astonishing that the Europeans have kept together so far," said Charles Grant, director of the Center for European Reform. "But the worry is that given stagflation, high energy prices, migration and deficits, populists might exploit divisions and push Ukraine to make an early peace. As the war goes on, divisions in these two camps will get worse."
Nathalie Tocci, director of the Institute for International Affairs in Rome, thinks Europe's glass is half full. On the positive side, she said, Europe has made significant strides in energy conservation and begun to wean itself from Russian energy, especially from natural gas. Brussels has tried to coordinate energy storage, put a cap on gas prices (though too high to matter) and begun discussion on decoupling the electricity and gas markets.
Still, Russian gas flows were largely intact until June and continued afterward in lesser amounts, including Russian supplies of pipeline and liquefied natural gas, and the value of imports from Russia soared, funding the Kremlin for now.
Estimates are that Europe cut its gas consumption by nearly a quarter in 2022, but most of that has come from businesses that have shut down production. Germany, which got more than half its gas from Russia in 2021, is now getting none. In Europe as a whole, which got 46 percent of its gas from Russia in 2021, including LNG, the figure dropped to 24 percent in 2022 and by the end of the year was even lower, said Giovanni Sgaravatti of Bruegel, a Brussels economic think tank.
But governments have also stepped in to soften the impact of high energy prices with direct subsidies to companies and homeowners - Germany with 200 billion euros over two years, twice the amount declared with such fanfare for its own military spending over four years, prompting complaints from poorer and less prudent states. How much longer can governments afford such subsidies, especially with already high debt levels from managing the Covid-19 pandemic? And how will any of this further climate goals that are increasingly the focus of international talks, such as those at Davos?
Europe will now have to rely on non-Russian sources of energy, especially liquefied natural gas from countries like Qatar and the United States, but that will create new dependencies, especially on Washington, said Robin Niblett, former director of Chatham House, a London-based think tank. Add that to Europe's need "to turn wholeheartedly to the U.S. to help guarantee its security" in the face of Russia's willingness to double down militarily on trying to rewrite Europe's security order, Mr. Niblett said, and "as a result the E.U. has ditched the idea of European strategic autonomy as a project running parallel to and independent of NATO."
European institutions are functioning well, especially the European Commission, the bloc's executive bureaucracy, and it has been clever to turn existing agencies, like the European Peace Facility, into a mechanism to finance military aid to Ukraine. It has also used joint resources, some €300 billion from its Covid recovery fund, to accelerate the transition to renewable energy and radically reduce the need for Russian energy.
But European leaders were less united when it came to building up Europe's defense capabilities, buying from South Korea, Israel and the United States, not from within the continent. "It leads to Europe being less capable in defense and more dependent on the U.S.," Ms. Tocci said.
As for NATO, the war in Ukraine has "rescued it, transformed its status and ensured its relevance" after four years of confusion under President Donald J. Trump and the chaotic exit from Afghanistan, said Leslie Vinjamuri, director of the U.S. and Americas program at Chatham House.
NATO, with strong American leadership, has gone from being a post-Cold War institution in search of a purpose (at one point, as Mr. Macron said, "nearing brain death"), to a military alliance "desperately needed to protect its European members from an imminent threat to their sovereignty and security," Mr. Niblett said. The planned enlargement to include Finland and Sweden will enhance NATO and make it easier to align with a European Union that has been forcefully reminded of its military reliance on Washington.
But there are major challenges ahead, with serious questions suppressed in the name of trans-Atlantic unity and solidarity with Ukraine.
Ukraine has been promised membership in both the European Union and NATO, but there are no realistic offers for now, and the complicated question of future security guarantees for Ukraine has been left hanging while the fighting continues. How the war will end, how Ukraine will be protected and how it will be rebuilt - and by whom and with whose money - will have major consequences for both institutions.
Then there is the looming rise of China and what that means for trans-Atlantic security, cohesion and prosperity.
Politico Europe asked the E.U. ambassadors from Sweden and the Czech Republic what they consider to be the pressing issues for 2023. Their answers are apt and revealing.
Sweden's Lars Danielsson responded: "If and how the aggression against Ukraine will end. If energy prices will start to come down. If the rule of law will be fully respected in all E.U. member states."
The Czech, Edita Hrda, said: "In the short term, it will be the results of the Russian war in Ukraine, and whether the current will for unity in the E.U. will last, as well as whether, in the long term, it will be proved that the E.U. is capable of assuming the role of a global player."
"There is very little long-term strategic thinking going on in Brussels," said Mr. Zuleeg of the European Policy Center. "We cannot be definite about outcomes, but we need to start building possible scenarios."
#103
A $7.8 billion factory planned by a Chinese company in eastern Hungary has become divisive even within the party of Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who championed it.
The small-town mayor, long a loyal foot soldier for Hungary's governing party, recently committed what he described as "political suicide," throwing himself in the path of an enormous $7.8 billion Chinese battery factory project promoted by his dissent-intolerant prime minister, Viktor Orban.
"It is like lying in front of a steamroller," Zoltan Timar, the mayor of Mikepercs, said of his decision to side with residents opposed to the project, which his Fidesz party championed. "I just hope it won't roll over me too soon."
The factory, which would be the biggest of its kind in Europe, is the fruit of a yearslong diplomatic and economic tilt by Mr. Orban away from the West toward countries like China and Russia. It promises to put Hungary at the center of a wrenching and, for some, highly profitable green transition, with electric cars leading the way.
But residents in Mikepercs, a Fidesz stronghold in eastern Hungary, are seething over the arrival on nearby farmland of bulldozers and dump trucks preparing the way for the Chinese plant. Many worry the project would create pollution, drain their water supply and bring an influx of Chinese and other foreign workers.
"Pocketknives have opened up in everyone's pocket," said Eniko Pasztor, a pensioner and opponent of the factory, using a Hungarian phrase used to express anger.
Two public hearings on the venture, held in the nearby city of Debrecen in January, descended into chaos amid fistfights and shouts of "traitor" directed at officials by residents anxious about their future health and property values.
Taman Polgar Toth, a journalist with a local news site, Debreciner, said he "had never seen anything like it - hundreds of people yelling and fighting."
Behind the noise, however, lie two of the most consequential and closely entwined issues of the day: China and climate change. Disagreement over what to do about either has thrust tiny Mikepercs (population: 5,300) into a global ruckus.
In a push to dominate new technologies vital to the reduction of carbon emissions, China has lavished tens of billions of dollars' worth of tax breaks and other subsidies on its electric carmakers.
It is now the world's biggest maker of batteries for electric vehicles, led by Contemporary Amperex Technology Ltd., or CATL, the company behind the Hungarian project.
China's dominance of the industry has raised alarm in the United States, where a recent battery-factory project involving CATL in Virginia collapsed after Gov. Glenn Youngkin denounced it as a "front for the Chinese Communist Party." In Europe, there have been warnings about the risks of dependence on Chinese battery manufacturers.
CATL already has a $2 billion plant in Germany that was widely welcomed, but its plans for the larger one in Hungary has left it at odds with the nearly half of the country's population that, according to a survey this week, wants new battery plants banned.
Mr. Orban's courtship of China and its investors is part of Hungary's "Eastern Opening," a policy he announced in 2010 in an abrupt turn away from his previous role championing democracy, human rights and Tibet's exiled spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama.
The shift has delighted Beijing. On a visit last month to Budapest, the Hungarian capital, China's senior foreign policy official, Wang Yi, praised Hungary for its "China-friendly policy."
Many other European countries have soured on China, in part because of its support for Russia over the war in Ukraine. But Hungary - already isolated from its NATO and European Union allies because of its equivocal stand on the war - has doubled down.
"He is the last man standing as a friend of China in the European Union," said Tamas Matura, a foreign relations scholar at Corvinus University in Budapest.
When Hungary announced the battery plant last August, it trumpeted it as the biggest foreign investment in the country's history.
Previous Chinese megaprojects in Hungary, notably a nearly $3 billon high-speed railway between Budapest and Belgrade, the capital of neighboring Serbia, have been mired in delays and accusations of corruption relating to secret contracts for Mr. Orban's allies in business.
Now, the battery plant has been met with stiff opposition, first from local residents, and then from opposition politicians and civil society activists.
They were joined last week by the governor of Hungary's central bank, Gyorgy Matolcsy, a former Fidesz stalwart who accused Mr. Orban's government of stoking inflation by pursuing economic growth through large foreign investments in basic manufacturing, like battery plants. Hungary has become a manufacturing hub for German carmakers, Asian companies like Samsung, which has a battery plant near Budapest, and others foreign corporations.
The new Chinese battery factory is expected to create 9,000 jobs, but some economists say the macroeconomic gains, like years of robust growth, from such projects are offset by the inflation they help fuel. Hungary has Europe's highest annual rate of inflation, running at around 25 percent.
Gergely Karacsony, the mayor of Budapest, a prominent liberal critic of both Mr. Orban and China who has renamed several streets in the capital to give them names like "Free Hong Kong Road," said the "huge Chinese factory is a symbol of Hungary's model of capitalism" based on what he said were "low wages, low environmental standards and low protection for workers."
"In Hungary, we have socialism for the elites and capitalism for the masses," he said.
More worrying for the government is the public rift, small but highly unusual, that has opened up within the ranks of Fidesz.
Mr. Timar, the mayor of Mikepercs, won 100 percent of the vote in the last election in 2019, his fifth victory in a row for the party.
Struggling to contain discontent among its supporters, Fidesz has deployed its vast media apparatus to paint the furor over the battery plant as the work of outside agitators funded by the Hungarian-born financier George Soros, the governing party's go-to villain, and "fake" residents mobilized by the opposition.
But Fidesz's problems began last November, when a group of women in Mikepercs, angry that they had not been consulted about the Chinese project, organized a street protest, the first of many.
Ms. Pasztor, the pensioner, joined other women to form Mothers of Mikepercs, a group that wants to halt construction of the factory until residents have reliable information about what it would mean for their water supply, noise levels and pollution. Another big question they have is where the plant's workers would come from, since unemployment in the area is nearly nonexistent.
The mayor, Mr. Timar, held a town-hall meeting and invited CATL to address local concerns. The company, he said, told him it was "too busy" to send someone to answer questions.
Asked about the meeting, a spokesman for the Chinese company, Fred Zhang, said CATL "communicates regularly" with the mayor and has been "actively responding to questions and concerns from local residents."
Many of the concerns, he added, "are misinformation and misunderstanding. We intend to strengthen our communications with local communities in the future."
Ms. Pasztor said she has nothing against China but did not want neighborhood houses turned into dormitories for Chinese and other foreign workers, a widespread concern after years of anti-immigrant fear-mongering by Mr. Orban and his party's media machine.
The Fidesz mayor of Debrecen, Laszlo Papp, a strong supporter of the Chinese factory, acknowledged that many locals were upset but said this was largely because there "is a lot of fake information" about how much water the plant would use, where factory workers would come from and other issues.
He added that it was important to keep an eye on long-term economic development and not be distracted by "momentary shifts in the public mood" driven by political rivalries. "You can't run a city on the basis of mood and feelings," he said.
The Chinese factory, its supporters say, is vital for the whole country.
"The green transition is inevitable, and we want to be part of it," said Mate Litkei, director of the Climate Policy Institute in Budapest, hailing the Chinese investment as an important contribution to the shift away from fossil fuels.
Mr. Litkei said that Hungary needed to ensure there were enough batteries on hand before 2035, when a European Union ban on the sale of new gas and diesel cars will start.
Mercedes-Benz Group, which has a big factory in Hungary, welcomed CATL's plans, saying it would be the "first and biggest customer of the new plant's initial capacity."
When CATL in January opened a much smaller battery factory in Germany, it met with no opposition from local residents or German environmentalists, whose Green Party is part of the coalition government in Berlin.
In Hungary, however, politics have become so polarized and toxic, with Fidesz for years vilifying environmental activists as agents of Mr. Soros, that neither side trusts the other.
Hungarian environmentalists see electric cars as a big improvement on carbon-emitting vehicles, but point to the damage caused by the mining and processing of lithium, cobalt and other hazardous materials used to make batteries.
On top of that, said Peter Ungar, co-chairman of the Green Party of Hungary, factories like the one next to Mikepercs consume vast amounts of water and energy and cover arable land with concrete. CATL's Hungarian plant would cover an area around the size of 400 football fields.
"Batteries are not our salvation," Mr. Ungar said. "Nor is China."
#104
CAIRO - Walking home from the downtown Cairo restaurant where he works late one recent night, Ahmed Ali did a double-take: Tahrir Square, home to the famed Egyptian Museum and multiple revolutions, was almost entirely dark.
Usually it dripped with golden light. But that night, practically its only illumination came from the red subway stop sign.
Had there been a blackout? Mr. Ali asked his fellow waiters. No, they said.
In August, at the height of the Egyptian summer, the government had ordered government offices, stadiums, hotels and malls to turn down the air-conditioning and turn off the lights to conserve power. The natural gas savings would be sold to Europe at a hefty markup, helping Egypt weather an economic hurricane and Europe survive an energy crisis brought on by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"The more we export to Europe, the more we're going to have electricity shortages here," said Mr. Ali, 21. "It's a good thing for Europe, but it's not a very good thing for us."
To the government in Cairo, however, a Europe in sudden need of natural gas is a very good thing.
And even as Egypt hosts the annual United Nations conference on combating climate change, known as COP27, this week, selling fossil fuels has been among its top priorities.
Critics have questioned Egypt's fitness to host the summit over other aspects of its environmental record, including lackluster emissions-cutting targets and massive infrastructure projects that are destroying green space across Cairo and sucking water from the already-stressed Nile, its main water source.
But gas is in the spotlight.
While Egypt is desperate for cash as fallout from the Ukraine war batters its debt-ridden economy, Europe is desperate for natural gas after spurning Russian energy because of the war.
Enter Egypt and its two gas liquefaction export plants - just across the Mediterranean from Europe.
Since Egypt began pumping from the enormous Mediterranean natural gas field known as Zohr in 2017, the country has sought to position itself as a major energy hub. By January, it hopes to sell $1 billion of natural gas a month, some its own, some imported and liquefied for re-export.

A direct gas pipeline from the southern Mediterranean to Europe is impractical, experts say. That means natural gas pumped from elsewhere in the region must first head to Egypt for liquefaction before being re-exported north to Europe by ship.
"The financial situation we're in has put us in a ridiculous position, cutting off energy from Egyptians to sell to Europeans," said Ahmed El Droubi, Greenpeace's Middle East regional campaigns manager.
But for Egypt, the benefits of positioning itself as an energy hub go beyond the financial.
Egypt already uses its geopolitical leverage on two other major issues, illegal migration and terrorism, both of which it has promised Europe to help counter. Energy has given it a new card to play in the face of scoldings from the West over its human rights record.
Egypt is also profiting from L.N.G. shipments passing through the Suez Canal, on which the government recently raised fees, said Richard Probst, the Egypt representative for Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, a German social democratic political foundation.
"With Europe in need, not many will push back," he said.
The European Parliament voted in July to label natural gas as a "green" fuel, opening the door to a flood of new investment. Western energy companies are striking gas deals with governments across Africa to supply Europe.
The European Commission's president, Ursula von der Leyen, has said that a June deal between Israel and Egypt to export a steady stream of natural gas to Europe would "contribute to our E.U. energy security."
Egypt has dismissed warnings from climate experts that no new gas fields should open if the world is to have a chance of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, the level experts say is necessary to prevent the worst impacts of climate change.
Egypt's petroleum minister, Tarek el-Molla, recently called gas "the cleanest hydrocarbon fuel," saying it will continue to play a key role in the energy mix.
But environmental groups warn that gas investments risk locking developing countries into decades of fossil fuel dependency.
"Instead of putting these really expensive large investments into dead-end projects, they should be shifted into clean-energy projects" that would eventually cost far less than fossil fuels, said Rachel Cleetus, the climate and energy policy director at the Union of Concerned Scientists.
"But richer countries are not in a position to wag their fingers," she added. They, too, are expanding fossil fuel investments. "And it is a much harder challenge for low-income countries to make that transition."
There are, however, serious doubts that Egypt can continue covering its own gas needs, let alone Europe's.
"Talk that Egypt can supply Europe with bountiful gas is, for lack of a better word, a myth," said Peter Stevenson, the east Mediterranean editor at MEES, an oil and gas analysis firm.
Even if Egypt's two L.N.G. plants were running at full capacity, they could export only about 11 percent of what Europe used to get from Russia - assuming Europe can afford every drop of Egyptian gas, the majority of which goes to the highest global bidder.
But the plants have operated well below capacity, pointing to a deeper issue: Despite the windfall of the Mediterranean gas field, Egypt has barely any surplus gas of its own to sell.
Domestic demand for power has soared nearly 35 percent since 2015, driven by a rapidly growing population, while gas production has dropped steadily since last fall, thanks in part to overdrilling.
To close the gap and free more gas to sell, Egypt is fueling some of its power plants with mazut, a low-quality fuel oil that burns dirtier and shortens the plants' life spans, said Mohamed El Sobki, an energy engineering professor at Cairo University. Thanks to mazut, Egypt's electricity sector has begun emitting carbon dioxide at steeply higher rates.
"This is a double-edged sword, really," Professor el-Sobki said. "We are increasing the economic prospects for natural gas, but also, we're hurting the environment."
Egypt managed to export two cargoes of L.N.G. to Europe in August after increasing gas imports from Israel and burning more mazut at home. Without such measures, however, Egypt would have had nothing to sell and would even risk blackouts, Mr. Stevenson said.
Ordering electricity cutbacks in the heat of August, when domestic demand usually peaks, may have helped as well.
But the rush to make Egypt a gas hub appears to have diverted attention from its huge clean-energy potential, which needs more investment and better government regulations, analysts say.
Despite its vast deserts, windy coastlines and year-round sunshine, just 4.9 percent of Egypt's power came from renewable sources in the most recent fiscal year, far short of its goal of 20 percent by 2022.
The Climate Action Tracker rates Egypt's emissions-cutting pledges, which until recently did not even include a numerical target, as "highly insufficient."
Some energy experts agree with Egypt that gas can play a crucial role in keeping the lights on and homes warm while the world moves toward clean energy, as long as fossil fuel investments are retired quickly. Long term, they say, Egypt is geographically well situated to export clean energy from the renewables-rich Middle East to Europe.
As some African countries have pointed out, Egypt and other developing countries can hardly be faulted for trying to profit when wealthy nations got rich off fossil fuels first.
There's a "rising tension between developed and developing countries that's going to be on full display" at the climate conference, said Jason Bordoff, the cofounding dean of the Columbia Climate School. "Low-income countries are saying, 'We did not cause the problem, yet you're asking us to not industrialize in the same way that developed countries were able to.'"
Ahead of the climate conference, Egypt's clean energy investment has picked up, with President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi saying recently that green projects now account for about 40 percent of total public investment. Egypt plans to unveil a national strategy to make green hydrogen, a clean-burning but energy-intensive fuel produced from renewable sources, at the summit.
For now, gas is king.
Mr. el-Sisi had been set to meet with Ms. Von der Leyen of the European Commission at the summit on Monday, though the meeting was later canceled. On the agenda: gas for Europe.
#105
President Emmanuel Macron of France has warned that the country should brace itself for a total cutoff of Russian natural gas.
Speaking Thursday in an interview marking France's national holiday, Bastille Day, Mr. Macron said there was a "likely risk" that the country would cut gas flows to Europe. He said the people of France should support alternative sources of energy, and prepare to have public lights switched off at night.
"It's a very difficult scenario and we must prepare for it," he added, although he noted that France, which draws about 70 percent of its electricity from nuclear power, was not as dependent on Russian gas as some of its neighbors.
"Russia is using energy, like it is using food, as a weapon of war," Mr. Macron said. "This war will continue," he added, noting that the summer and early autumn would "be very hard."
The televised appearance was Mr. Macron's first since his re-election in April, and he adopted a combative tone in trying to reassure the French that he was firmly at the wheel to address challenges ranging from inflation to climate change.
But with little end in sight to Russia's war on Ukraine, he also warned that the economic impact of the war would become more acute, and that the people of France should ready themselves for the possible gas cutoff.
"I want the country to move forward," Mr. Macron said. "I will do everything to find intelligent compromises along that course."
Since taking office in 2017, Mr. Macron had broken with the widely observed presidential tradition of Bastille Day televised interviews, giving only one previously, in 2020, at the height of the coronavirus pandemic.
His decision to return to the tradition on Thursday suggested he was eager to shore up support and to give France a sense of direction.
Mr. Macron said that to tackle the gas shortage, the government would prepare a measured conservation plan to limit energy use.
France would also continue looking to diversify its gas sources, he said.
Though France is less dependent than European neighbors like Germany on Russian gas and oil, its relative sovereignty depends in part on upgrading the country's aging nuclear reactors.
Earlier this month, Élisabeth Borne, the French prime minister, told lawmakers that France would renationalize its state-backed electricity giant, Électricité de France, which produces most of the country's electricity, as well as operating all of its nuclear plants.
"The energy transition requires nuclear power," she said.
#106
MEXICO CITY - On a recent scorching afternoon in his home state of Tabasco, the president of Mexico celebrated his government's latest triumph: a new oil refinery.
Though not yet operational, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador hailed the refinery as a centerpiece in his grand campaign to secure Mexico's energy independence.
"We ignored the sirens' song, the voices that predicted, in good faith, perhaps, the end of the oil age and the massive arrival of electric cars and renewable energies," he told the cheering crowd.
At a moment when scientists are sounding alarms about the need to move away from fossil fuels that contribute to catastrophic climate change, Russia's invasion of Ukraine has sparked a global shift in the opposite direction, with the United States and European countries moving to increase oil and gas production to counter bans on Russian energy.
But Mexico is going even further.
Driven by Mr. López Obrador's long-held goal to wrest control of the energy sector from private companies and allow state firms to dominate the market, the government is undermining efforts to expand renewable power and staking the nation's future on fossil fuels.
The policy is central to Mr. López Obrador's ambition to reverse what he sees as corrupt privatization of the industry, guarantee Mexican energy sovereignty and return the country to the glory days when oil created thousands of jobs and helped bolster the economy.
To this end, Mexican authorities are using the might of their regulatory agencies to keep renewable firms out of the market, blocking their power plants from operating, and instead propping up fossil fuel-powered plants owned or run by the state, according to interviews with more than a dozen former government officials, analysts and energy executives.
As a result, Mexico will almost certainly fail to meet its pledge to the world to reduce its carbon output, according to analysts. The country has also potentially jeopardized billions of dollars in renewable investment and created another source of tension with the Biden administration, which has made combating climate change a key pillar of its foreign policy agenda.
"People say: 'how is he going to fulfill his commitments to climate change?' And I always tell people, 'well, he doesn't care,'" Tony Payan, a Mexico expert at the Baker Institute for Public Policy at Rice University, said of Mr. López Obrador. "He's an oil man."
The president's press office, Mexico's Energy Ministry and the state electric company did not respond to requests for comment.
Mr. López Obrador has argued that while the transition to renewable energy will happen eventually, Mexico is simply not ready.
"That technological advancement will become a reality," he said during the refinery inauguration. "To get there, we need more time."
The government has not completely abandoned renewable energy. It plans to spend about $1.6 billion to build a giant solar plant in northern Mexico as well as refurbish more than a dozen state-owned hydroelectric plants.
Mexico generates about 70 percent of its energy from fossil fuels, while renewables, nuclear power and other low-emission sources provide the rest, according to government figures.
Mr. López Obrador's supporters also contend that the government's strategy will allow the state more control over the energy sector and any shift to renewables. The policy is critical in a country where public oversight of the private sector has often been weak, according to Fluvio Ruíz Alarcón, an analyst and former adviser at Pemex, the state-owned oil firm.
"Once a sector as important in our country as energy is controlled by private hands, state regulation becomes very, very difficult," Mr. Ruíz said. Keeping the sector under state control "gives you the ability to manage the energy transition at your own pace."
For Mexico, sovereignty over energy production holds a special place. In the 1930s, President Lázaro Cárdenas seized the assets of foreign oil firms, including U.S. corporations, accused of exploiting Mexican workers and nationalized the industry, an iconic event celebrated as a national holiday.
Mr. López Obrador, who hails Mr. Cárdenas as an inspiration, has made regaining a near monopoly over energy for the state a top priority.
One of his first acts was installing loyalists on the board of an energy regulatory commission responsible for overseeing the power sector, turning what had been an independent agency, analysts say, into a tool to carry out the president's agenda.
"You've lost any semblance of autonomy or independence there," said Jeremy M. Martin, vice president for energy and sustainability at the Institute of the Americas, a public policy research institute.
As of June, more than 50 wind and solar projects proposed by private and foreign firms were awaiting permits from the commission, with some applications dating to 2019, the last time any new permits for private energy companies were approved, according to government records. In total, they represent a potential of almost 7,000 megawatts of renewable energy - enough electricity to power a city the size of Los Angeles.
There's a "war that's been waged against renewables," said Francisco Salazar Diez de Sollano, a former chairman of the energy regulatory commission.
Antonio Perea, who works in business development at Sungrow, a Chinese firm supplying solar hardware, said three projects his company was working on are on hold because the government has not granted permits.
In Mexico, "we had the cheapest solar energy in the world, and unfortunately with all these changes we've been left behind," Mr. Perea said, referring to the government's energy agenda. "It's not an energy issue, it's a political issue."
Mr. López Obrador has also focused on reversing sweeping energy reforms approved by his predecessor, which opened Mexican energy markets to private companies, including foreign firms working on renewables, for the first time in decades. In 2019, he canceled a public auction for the rights to generate wind and solar power, even though earlier auctions had led to some of the world's cheapest renewable prices.
Mr. López Obrador's governing Morena party also approved a bill to rewrite rules governing how power plants inject electricity to the grid, reversing previous changes that required cheaper, often renewable energy to be dispatched first, and instead prioritizing state-owned plants.
The new law, which was widely criticized by the private sector and environmentalists, was narrowly upheld by the Supreme Court in April, but it remains tied up in several lawsuits.
Government authorities have also prevented at least 14 privately owned wind and solar plants that have already been built from operating commercially, according to two industry executives who requested anonymity out of fear of government reprisals.
The government has also given preference to energy from coal, gas and fuel-oil burning plants owned by the state over privately owned renewables in the order that they feed power into the national grid, citing the reliability needs of the energy system.
The practice was carried out "without apparent justification," according to a report released last year by a U.S.-based firm hired by Mexico to monitor the nation's energy sector. And even though the Supreme Court ruled key parts of the government's policy unconstitutional, it is still being applied, according to the industry executives.
And even as it blocks renewable energy, the state is planning to invest $6.2 billion to build 15 fossil fuel-powered plants by 2024, government documents show.
The authorities' targeting of the renewable sector has had a major economic impact: Foreign direct investment in the energy sector plunged from $5 billion in 2018, when Mr. López Obrador took office, to less than $600 million last year, according to government figures.
"Mexico is not open for energy investment," Mr. Payan said. "It's simply shut down."
With U.S. firms already having invested heavily in the Mexican energy sector, the policy changes have become an increasing source of tension with Washington.
The Biden administration said recently it was seeking high-level discussions with Mexico over its energy policies, raising the specter of new tariffs.
"We have repeatedly expressed serious concerns about a series of changes in Mexico's energy policies," Katherine Tai, the U.S. trade representative, said in a statement. "But, unfortunately, U.S. companies continue to face unfair treatment."
Mr. López Obrador, during a news conference, appeared to shrug off the United States' warning, playing a video of a Mexican song called "Ooh, How Scary."
The Mexican leader has said his country would be open to foreign investment in renewable projects only if the energy ministry was in charge of planning and the state-owned utility company had a majority share - a likely violation of Mexico's trade agreement with the United States.
Mr. López Obrador has insisted that Mexico will meet its goal under the 2015 Paris Agreement to produce 35 percent of its power from renewable sources by 2024, but a government report released this year showed that the country is now years behind that target.
Many environmentalists and renewable energy experts said they were focused on Mexico's next presidential elections in two years, hoping for an administration friendlier to renewable power.
"Whoever takes office in 2024 is going to have to deal with some serious deficiencies in the energy sector," Mr. Martin said. But as far as the Paris Agreement, he added, "that ship has sailed."
#107
RESGUARDO BUENAVISTA, Colombia - At the edge of the Colombian Amazon, in an Indigenous village surrounded by oil rigs, the Siona people faced a dilemma.
The United Nations Development Program, or U.N.D.P., had just announced a $1.9 million regional aid package. In a village with no running water, intermittent electricity and persistent poverty, any money would mean food and opportunity.
But the aid program was part of a partnership between the United Nations agency and GeoPark, the multinational petroleum company. The company holds contracts to drill near the Siona reservation, including one with the government that would expand operations onto what the Siona consider their ancestral land. To the Siona people on the Buenavista reservation, oil drilling is an assault, akin to draining blood from the earth.
This collaboration is one example of how one of the world's largest sustainable development organizations partners with polluters, even those that at times work against the interests of the communities the agency is supposed to help.
From Mexico to Kazakhstan, these partnerships are part of a strategy that treats oil companies not as environmental villains but as major employers who can bring electricity to far-flung areas and economic growth to poor and middle-income nations. The development agency has used oil money to provide clean water and job training to areas that might otherwise be neglected.
But internal documents and dozens of interviews with current and former officials show that when the United Nations has partnered with oil companies, the agency has also tamped down local opposition to drilling, conducted business analyses for the industry and worked to make it easier for companies to keep operating in sensitive areas.
The agency's Colombia office, in particular, is a revolving door of officials moving in and out of oil companies and government energy ministries. The United Nations development agency has also worked with the government and the oil industry to compile dossiers on drilling opponents. There is no evidence that those dossiers were used to target anyone, but in a country where environmental activists are killed at a rate higher than anywhere else in the world, activists and community members said they felt their lives had been put at risk.
Even as the United Nations sounds the alarm on climate change and calls for a dramatic reduction in fossil fuel consumption, its development arm at times serves as a cheerleader for the oil and gas industry.
"The oil and gas sector is one of the industrial sectors worldwide capable of generating the greatest positive impacts on people's development conditions," the United Nations Development Program wrote in 2018.
The development agency said it supports a clean energy transition and does not encourage drilling. But Achim Steiner, the agency's head, said its mission is to bring people out of poverty, and that that often means working in countries that are built on coal, oil and gas. "We have to start where economies are today," Mr. Steiner said in an interview. "I don't see a contradiction, but there is a tension."
Adding to that tension, current and former officials say, is a relentless fund-raising pressure. The agency takes a cut - from about 3 to 10 percent - of donations. Officials, backed by the agency's own audits, say that puts pressure on development officers to find partners in their assigned countries, even when the donors work against their agency's interests.
Internal emails show that senior officials have bristled at having to put a glossy sheen on the world's dirtiest companies - a process critics call blue washing, after the organization's signature color.
In 2017, for example, two years after world leaders adopted the Paris climate agreement, the agency published a report on the positive role the oil and gas industry could play for the world. It listed an Exxon Mobil recycling initiative and Chevron's promotion of engineering in classrooms.
"I really think this publication is problematic, as it aims to portray the oil and gas industry in a favorable light," one agency employee wrote in a group email. The report "was undermining our message on sustainable energy," read another email.
As a share of the agency's $8 billion budget, money from the energy industry is a pittance: about $6 million a year, according to data provided by U.N.D.P. But locally that money can have outsize effects.
Nowhere are those effects felt more than in Colombia, where oil companies, the government, armed groups and environmentalists are fighting over the future of the Amazon. Deforestation has reached record levels, threatening a rainforest that serves as a crucial buffer against climate change.
Until last year, the Siona people living on the banks of the muddy Putumayo River in southern Colombia saw the United Nations development agency as an ally in that fight. The community had benefited from a previous grant from the agency.
Then came the GeoPark partnership.
'Deal of the Year'
Mario Erazo Yaiguaje, a soft-spoken community leader and former governor of the Buenavista reservation, suspected that the U.N.D.P. aid program was a stealth attempt by the oil company to push his village into accepting its presence in the region.
The Siona of Buenavista live in wooden homes on a small territory cut into the Amazon on the border with Ecuador. Community life revolves around the chagra, a traditional farm plot, and yagé, a substance that the outside world labels a hallucinogen, but the Siona consider a medicine that, when taken under the instruction of an elder, allows them to receive wisdom and guidance.
This region has been the scene of conflict for generations, and the Siona of Buenavista see oil companies as the source of their problems, drawing in both leftist rebels, who have attacked the oil pipelines in the area, and the government soldiers who are sent to guard company infrastructure. The oil industry and the cocaine trade have together contributed to so much violence that one of the country's highest courts has designated the Siona at "risk of extermination."
The United Nations announced its GeoPark partnership at a moment of controversy. The company was already defending a lawsuit over an oil spill in the region. Then, a local advocacy organization publicly accused GeoPark of hiring an armed group to threaten drilling opponents. The company fiercely denied the allegation, but activists in the region said they feared for their lives.
Mr. Erazo saw the GeoPark deal as a tactic. "Clearing their name," he called it. "When we saw that GeoPark was giving money to U.N.D.P., we realized that they'd made the deal of the year."
GeoPark says it has no interest in drilling on the Siona reservation and has taken steps to give up its lease on the disputed territory. It said its partnership with the development agency was intended to help communities that had suffered economically during the Covid-19 pandemic. The money was never intended for the Siona, the company said.
"We have always had a relationship based on dialogue, respect and building trust with our neighbors," the company said in a statement.
The Siona of Buenavista saw things differently and began preparing for a difficult decision. Sitting in the front row of a community meeting last year, wearing the traditional white tunic reserved for special occasions, Mr. Erazo listened as the community's lawyer, Lina María Espinosa, laid out their choice:
"You are going to receive a sum that will provide for any family need," she said. "But the money comes from, or will come from, the oil company."
She asked: "Will you accept it?"
'Feeding the Beast'
Mr. Erazo understood why GeoPark might want to partner with the United Nations. But why would a sustainable development agency partner with an oil company?
The origins of these deals are murky. Unlike the broader United Nations, the agency receives no dues from member nations. Its donations mostly come from governments and large international funds. Groups like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and private companies make up the rest.
Former officials say today's relationship with major energy companies can be traced in part to a fight with one of the agency's biggest benefactors, a nonprofit fund called the Global Environmental Facility, which pools money from governments to address major planetary challenges.
In 2011, Monique Barbut, the fund's top executive at the time, became convinced that U.N.D.P. was too focused on raising money, with too little to show for it. "These people were accountable to no one," Ms. Barbut said in an interview. She began cutting funding.
Those cuts coincided with the lingering effects of the global financial crisis and increased demand for development aid. So the agency doubled down on its fund-raising. Energy companies were among the targets.
"In an environment of declining aid, revenue from extractive sectors can serve as an additional source of financing," U.N.D.P. wrote in 2012 as part of a strategy dedicated to oil, gas and mining.
That year, the agency announced a partnership with Shell Oil that helped train Iraqis to work in the oil and gas industry. A project with the energy company Pemex helped expand oil production in Mexico.
Development officials, who operate with broad authority in their assigned countries, recall constant pressure to find money.
"It's a system centered on feeding the beast," said Benoit Lebot, who worked on environmental projects during that period. Mr. Lebot said he erupted at his supervisors "I am not a number on a spreadsheet!" and ultimately quit.
Even today, staff members say - and performance appraisal forms reiterate - that supervisors prioritize raising money and starting projects. "How many projects did you get? How much money did you bring in?" said Dominic Rassool, who in 2018 quit his job as a technical adviser. Whether or not projects succeed, he said, matters less.
Mr. Steiner, the agency's top executive, makes no apologies for the fund-raising focus.
"For those who say that that pressure is there, I can only say, 'Well, welcome to reality,'" he said.
He firmly rejected, however, the notion that he prioritizes raising money over running successful programs. He said that independent evaluators review and rate every project.
But current and former evaluators say that when they do find problems, United Nations and local government officials often pressure them to soften their conclusions.
"Most of the time, it's done in a tasteful way," said Roland Wong, who evaluated projects for the agency for over a decade. Other times, the changes are more egregious. "Evaluations can suffer from gross embellishment to the point where it's almost untrue."
A common technique, current and former officials say, is to recast failures as "lessons learned."
'This Is a Trick'
Mr. Steiner talks about meeting economies where they are, and Colombia's economy relies heavily on oil. It is the nation's most important export. Anyone looking to raise money for development here would naturally find their way to fossil fuel companies.
Though Mr. Steiner says the agency does not support drilling projects, records show it does work to make it easier to drill. For years, Colombia's national oil and gas agency and the country's largest company, Ecopetrol, have contracted with U.N.D.P. to analyze risks and give advice on how to run the business more smoothly.
That business risk might mean a leaky pipeline, where the agency's analysis could help prevent or mitigate an environmental problem. Other times, the business risk might be an angry community that opposes drilling.
In those situations, records show that development officials step in to smooth things over - with the goal of ensuring that operations continue as planned. As part of several U.N.D.P. projects, the agency worked with Ecopetrol and the Colombian fossil fuels ministry to compile dossiers on people in oil drilling areas.
One report, in the department of Meta, in the central part of the country, was inadvertently posted on a government website in 2015. The dossier, prepared for the interior ministry, identified town counselors and farmers who held "aggressive discourse" against the oil industry. A church was identified where the priest gave "speeches against the industry" at the end of mass.
Environmental activists are killed in Colombia at a rate of more than one a week, according to Global Witness, a human rights organization with offices in London, Washington and Brussels, making Colombia the world's deadliest place to defend the earth. When activists saw themselves in the report, they felt the development agency had put them at risk. There is no evidence that this document or other dossiers led to violence.
In a statement, Ecopetrol said it works with the development agency because of its reputation for impartiality and to ensure that underserved communities get the attention they deserve.
"The company has long recognized the importance of social leaders and their contribution to society," Ecopetrol said, using a local term for environmental and community activists. The company said it rejects threats or any other tactics that impede "free, safe and legitimate exercise of their work."
Mr. Steiner said this is an essential process known as "stakeholder mapping." If governments are to consult people on all sides of an issue, the key players must be identified.
The published report, however, focused in particular on opponents of the oil industry. Among the report's action items: organize a forum of community members and environmentalists and "dismiss their speech."
The U.N.D.P. said that, while the report was written by an agency contractor, was hosted on the agency's server and included the agency's logo, it was actually written at the behest of the Colombian government. Thus an agency spokesman would not comment on the report's content.
One environmental activist, Edgar Humberto Cruz, who is listed in the report under the category "problematic," said U.N.D.P. organized meetings to highlight the benefits that Ecopetrol and other companies brought to the region. "They told us that it was not convenient to oppose the industry," Mr. Cruz said.
An agency spokesman said that such conversations are not part of the agency's policy.
Today in Meta, suspicions run deep.
"The only reason it has come here, to our region, is to try to soften up the communities so that Ecopetrol can come in to do its oil work," said Gustavo Carrión, a leader in Castilla La Nueva, a town in northwest Meta.
The agency's own employees acknowledge as much. Fabian Espejo, who worked for the development agency in Colombia for five years, wrote in his 2020 doctoral thesis that the agency had good intentions but also took its cue from the oil, gas and mining ministries "to keep the production running smoothly."
Mr. Steiner said his agency works under difficult conditions to bring money and opportunities to people who need it most. He does not set Colombia's energy policies and cannot order the government to stop drilling in certain areas. What he can do, he said, is look for ways to minimize harm to communities and the environment.
"But also to maximize the benefits of an industry - extractive industries writ large - that is very significant, and a very significant revenue source for many developing countries," he said.
A development official made a similar argument last year in a tense call with Mr. Erazo and others about the GeoPark deal. The United Nations did not invite the oil companies into the area, the official, Jessica Faieta, said. But "now that they're already in the region, we can in some way guarantee that they comply with human rights."
The Siona of Buenavista were livid. The United Nations seemed to be vouching for oil companies, Mr. Erazo said.
That conversation torpedoed any hope of winning them over. The Siona filed a formal complaint with the agency, returned their earlier grant and swore off ever again accepting help from the development program.
"People applaud every time a U.N.D.P. representative arrives because he's arrived with something. 'God bless!'" Mr. Erazo said. But, he went on, "This is a trick."
The partnership with GeoPark, he said, was "the death of that organization for us."
Today, along the banks of the Putumayo, Mr. Erazo sees trouble ahead. Inflation has sent food costs soaring. Gasoline prices have made even simple transport difficult.
A relationship with the United Nations Development Program would certainly have its benefits.
But he has no regrets.
The development agency canceled the GeoPark partnership and is now investigating why it ever got involved with the company when the Siona's grievances were already so well known.
"I think that is a legitimate critique," Mr. Steiner said, adding, "You know, we have learned lessons."
#108
PRAGUE - Against the fairy-tale backdrop of a medieval castle and amid warm words of unity against Russia, European leaders meeting at the Czech capital didn't even try to conceal disagreements over what to do about the spiraling energy crisis engulfing their nations.
Gathering in Prague Thursday and Friday - first together with leaders from the broader region, then just among themselves - European Union leaders took another stab at possible ways to bring down energy prices.
European countries are facing dwindling supplies of Russian natural gas, which many depend on for electricity and heating in households and industry. The scarcity has distorted the market, driving gas prices to historic highs and pulling up the price of electricity, which is also skyrocketing. This means that Europeans are facing unmanageable power bills and factory slowdowns while inflation, already much higher than normal, is being pushed up further.
As often happens during crises, E.U. countries are fast falling behind their traditional fault lines: north versus south, richer versus poorer.
Whether they manage to tackle this crisis will help determine the answers to a broader set of crucial challenges: Can they can band together to soften and shorten the looming recession? Can they maintain a united front against Russia? And can they keep political stability at home ahead of a wave of elections and an ascendant far right?
Judging by the meetings in the Prague Castle this week, it's not looking great.
The bar was set low from the outset: "There will be no decisions today," said Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, the E.U.'s executive arm, as she arrived at the meeting Friday morning. Instead, she said, talks should prepare the ground for decisions later this month, on Oct. 20 and 21, when the leaders will convene in Brussels.
Germany, the bloc's de facto leader and by far its wealthiest economy, is being accused of prioritizing helping itself, even if that indirectly hurts its partners and undermines its dominant role in the European Union.
Its wealth means that it can offer big domestic subsidies on a national level. Critics say it also doesn't prioritize lowering the price of natural gas for the whole E.U., which could level the playing field to benefit poorer countries. Diplomats from critical countries said that Germany can afford the expensive gas and outbid other poorer E.U. countries for it, and had so far been reluctant to support the idea of setting a cap on the price of natural gas for the whole of the E.U. The diplomats spoke on condition of anonymity, in order to be able to speak frankly.
Last week the government in Berlin announced a 200 billion euro, or $196 billion, aid plan for German households, businesses and industries. It includes policies to curb natural gas and electricity prices domestically and, critics say, will clearly give Germany an advantage over its European partners.
The German government leads a group of richer, northern E.U. states opposing a menu of proposals that could curtail natural gas or electricity prices in order to de-escalate astronomical energy costs across the board.
More than half the E.U.'s 27 member nations think that attitude is harmful, and some are saying so out loud.
"We are strongly opposed to the destruction of the European single market, a destruction which will take place in the event that the German government is allowed to subsidize only its own enterprises," Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki of Poland told reporters in Prague Friday morning.
"My message to Germany is to be united, show solidarity with all the others," he said. "Because during difficult times, everybody has to agree on a common denominator, not just one denominator that is suitable to one country."
He added that there would be a "heated discussion about this German egotism."
Even President Emmanuel Macron of France, who has been trying to bridge the two camps, is advocating joint action on energy prices at the E.U. level.
"If we stay selfish, nationalistic, we will be idiots," Mr. Macron said in Paris on Thursday before flying to Prague. "If every country negotiates for themselves, there is not much left on the market. If we negotiate on the European level, we have clout."
The German government rejects such criticism.
"What Germany is doing is right," the country's chancellor, Olaf Scholz, told reporters after Friday's Prague meeting. "It is exactly what we have to do now to relieve the burden on our citizens. We are an economically strong country, so we can do this. We have always paid attention to our financial stability, and rightly so, so that we can act in crises."
The chancellor's arguments are finding little support outside the circle of wealthy E.U. allies that also includes Austria and Nordic nations, often referred to as the "frugals."
"Germany has lost a large part of its moral authority within the E.U. and, as a result, the European institutions and many member states are more willing to explicitly call out the German government's hypocrisy, both in terms of historical choices they've made as well as the political choices that are now being made to address the energy crisis," said Mujtaba Rahman, who leads the Europe practice at Eurasia Group, a consulting firm.
"This reflects the extent to which Germany's star has fallen within Europe," he added.
The open criticism of Germany speaks to Berlin's wobble on the European stage, as it continues to transition from the era of Angela Merkel, its leader of 15 years and one of the most important politicians in the bloc's recent history, into a new governing coalition led by Mr. Scholz.
Germany seems to be losing its traditionally tight grip of the European Commission, the E.U.'s executive branch, which drives policymaking and has long been accused of being Berlin's long arm in Brussels.
The commission is led by Ms. von der Leyen, a protégé of Ms. Merkel among German conservatives, who are political foes of Mr. Scholz, a Social Democrat.
Soon after Mr. Scholz unveiled his 200 billion euro package, two senior European commissioners, Thierry Breton, France's representative, and Paolo Gentiloni of Italy, published an op-ed in several European newspapers criticizing the plan. They said it could distort the core function of the European Union: its internal market, and the ability to trade freely and fairly within it.
"The massive 200 billion euro aid plan decided by Germany (worth 5 percent of its GDP) responds to a need we recognize and have highlighted - to support the economy. But it also raises questions. How can EU countries that do not have the same fiscal space also support businesses and households?" the E.U. officials asked in the piece.Ms. von der Leyen on Friday repeated the concern that subsidies might distort the single market, calling it "our single best asset in times of crisis."
"Therefore we need to preserve it, it is of paramount importance," she added.
Ms. von der Leyen, whose experts at the European Commission are responsible for drawing up joint policies, said she would propose several E.U.-wide measures to bring down gas and electricity prices, and offer a way for E.U. countries to jointly buy natural gas next spring, which would undercut Germany's current advantage.
"One thing is very clear: it is of paramount importance that we have a joint procurement of gas so that we avoid outbidding each other but that we have collective bargaining power," she said.
Before their next meeting, in two weeks' time, leaders will need to take a close look at these options and reach some compromise.
And, however loud the criticism of Germany might be, it will be hard to get anything done in the E.U. without Berlin.
"The view of a large part of the E.U. and the commission is that this is a textbook example of an external shock that requires a collective response to help address its consequences," said Mr. Rahman.
"But that's just not the approach nor thinking in Germany," he said. "And if that's not where Germany is, you can't get agreement at the European level."
#109
The war in Ukraine will undoubtedly dominate this week's World Economic Forum meeting in Davos, Switzerland, and Daniel Yergin, the energy historian, is among those whose insights are likely to be sought by that gathering's global elite.
An expert and respected commentator on the energy markets and geopolitics, as well as an entrepreneur and business executive, Mr. Yergin is now vice chairman of S&P Global, a New York-based financial services firm.
Mr. Yergin, who is 75, has been attending World Economic Forum meetings since the early 1990s and has helped shape the Davos approach to energy. He was recently interviewed by phone in Washington, D.C.; these are edited excerpts from the conversation.
What will be on the agenda this year?
There will be a sense of high urgency at Davos this year, beginning with the Ukraine war and the risks of escalation. There's a real need to develop a deeper understanding of how sanctions on Russian energy will disrupt energy flows and how the disruption and logistics can be managed to reduce the overall economic impact.
Energy security will certainly be back on the agenda, along with energy transition and sustainability. Front and center overall will be the economy - how intractable inflation has been and how likely it is that there will be greater economic slowdown, and why the supply-chain disruptions continue to persist.
And there will be a focus on the big impact on developing countries from the double crises in energy and food. In addition to the war in Ukraine itself, I expect we will see at Davos the initiation of a dialogue on the reconstruction of Ukraine - whenever that can begin.
Has the invasion changed energy politics in the United States?
Starting in November or so, the Biden administration became much more focused on domestic oil and gas production and wanted to see it increase. There has definitely been a change, and it has been driven by prices and by disruption.
#110
LONDON - With energy costs surging, a recession looming, more rail strikes down the tracks and the prospect of a drought, Britain faces its fair share of problems.
But the transition in leadership in the top tier of the British government has made those challenges more acute. The country has a caretaker prime minister who is preparing to depart, there is a war of words between his two potential successors, Parliament is not in session and it's vacation season, too.
All of which prompted worries that Britain's politicians have left the public in limbo at a moment of gathering crisis.
"It's basically like waiting for a typhoon to hit," said Steven Fielding, a professor of political history at the University of Nottingham. "We're all confident that bad things are going to happen, but at the moment, there's nobody in charge - no sense that anybody has got a grip of those things."
WHO'S NEXT?
The race to succeed Boris Johnson, explained.
Amid a stream of grim economic news, and as the economy starts to contract, many Britons have been shocked by new estimates that inflation will hit 13 percent and that the average cost of heating a normal home will climb to 4,266 pounds ($5,170) next year. That would raise the typical monthly payment to £355, from £164 now.
Officials are also reported to be drawing up plans to avert an electricity supply shortfall and possible blackouts in the winter.
On top of that, a rail strike is scheduled to resume on Thursday and there is acute pressure on public services, including the country's overstretched health system. Travel chaos recently choked airports and the country's biggest ferry port, Dover; and drought warnings are in place after England experienced its driest July since 1935.
Yet this tsunami of bad news has hit during a political vacuum, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson working out his last few weeks in Downing Street before a successor is announced on Sept. 5.
Mr. Johnson, who was forced to quit after a series of scandals, has rejected appeals to recall Parliament or to sit down with the two contenders vying for his job - the foreign secretary, Liz Truss, and the former chancellor of the Exchequer, Rishi Sunak - to work out how to help Britons facing huge increases in energy bills.
The sense of drift extends beyond the energy crisis, with public services crumbling and the ambulance service under severe pressure. Britons are also struggling with more administrative tasks such as renewing passports or securing tests for driver's licenses.
"It's not so much chaos, it's just a slow sense of decline: things stopping one after another," Professor Fielding said.
Nonetheless it is the news about energy price hikes, caused in large part by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and their dire prospects for the economy that have crystallized a sense of foreboding.
Earlier this month the Bank of England, warning that inflation would hit 13 percent, raised interest rates, and also forecast a recession lasting more than a year. At the time of the announcement both Mr. Johnson and his chancellor of the Exchequer, Nadhim Zahawi, were on vacation.
Back in Downing Street last week, Mr. Johnson attended a meeting last week with energy company bosses but insisted that decisions would have to await his successor.
Underwhelmed by that outcome, one newspaper on Friday opted for irony, publishing a banner headline that read: "PM turns up for meeting."
A former prime minister from the opposition Labour Party, Gordon Brown, sought to fill the gap last week, suggesting in an opinion article that energy companies should be nationalized temporarily if they failed to offer lower bills. However, his intervention served to underscore the absence of Labour's current leader, Keir Starmer, who was also on vacation.
When he returned to work on Monday, Mr. Starmer said that, were he in power, he would freeze energy bills to curb the impact on hard-pressed consumers.
Though Mr. Johnson has been criticized for refusing to try to problem-solve with Ms. Truss and Mr. Sunak on energy costs, the three would be unlikely to agree even if they were to get together in the same room.
The two leadership contenders are fighting a bitter political battle, and management of the economy has been one of the main dividing lines. Ms. Truss wants to focus on cutting taxes to spark economic growth, and Mr. Sunak wants to prioritize the fight against inflation.
But during an ill-tempered campaign, both candidates have been forced to shift their positions somewhat. Mr. Sunak now says he wants to cut VAT, a sales tax, on energy bills, having previously rejected that idea; Ms. Truss, who at one point insisted that she wanted to cut taxes rather than give people "handouts" in the form of grants, is now hinting that she might offer more help to those struggling with energy costs.
Analysts argue that, behind the scenes, work is being done and that there is time for the new prime minister to prepare a package of measures before the prices rises in the fall.
"The conversation between the energy companies and government is being facilitated and continuing," said Hannah White, acting director of the Institute for Government, a London-based research institute. "So, I don't think policymaking is quite as paralyzed as some of the media is seeking to portray it."
Ms. White said that part of the criticism of Mr. Johnson might come from those who always opposed him. "They may be using the fact that he's not solving this problem as a stick to beat him but, in my view, it wouldn't be right for him to be making a policy intervention," Ms. White said.
Nonetheless, few doubt the severity of what many people in Britain are facing. Martin Lewis, a prominent financial expert, told the BBC that Britain was confronting a "national crisis on the scale we saw in the pandemic," likening the situation to seeing hospital beds filling in continental European countries in 2020 but taking no action.
More than 100,000 people, in the meantime, have joined an online pledge to refuse to pay energy bills in October. "We're facing an energy price hike in the U.K. that will cause widespread devastation to so many," said Lewis Ford, from Hull in the north of England, who has gotten involved with the online initiative, which is known as Don't Pay. "Millions will be forced into debt and far, far too many will be left without heating in the cold of winter."
"The disgraceful failure of our political leaders to address this crisis is obvious to everyone," he added in an emailed statement.
The wider sense of malaise has underscored one of the peculiarities of the British system under which, when the governing party changes its leader, the country changes prime minister without a general election.
Image

Drought warnings are in place after England experienced its driest July since 1935.Credit...Neil Hall/EPA, via Shutterstock
Inevitably, that leaves a hiatus while the successor is chosen and, in a country where power is relatively centralized in London, that can be jarring for Britons whose electoral system is designed to deliver strong governments with the ability to act.
"The expectations are high, and at the moment the delivery is almost nonexistent because we've got a government that is incapacitated," said Professor Fielding.
There is, he added "an empty hole where a decisive prime minister should be."
#111
DAVOS, Switzerland - Europe's quest to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels is putting up new obstacles to its efforts to be a global climate leader, potentially locking the continent into methane-belching gas for decades to come.
To replace Russian piped gas, the largest single source of fuel for electricity generation, Europe is scrambling to secure liquefied natural gas, or L.N.G., from countries as far afield as Angola, Qatar and the United States - and spending 12 billion euros to construct import terminals and pipelines to get that gas where it needs to go.
Even with all of that new fossil-fuel infrastructure, a top European Union official said the 27-member bloc would aim to limit its reliance on gas to no more than a decade. It has little choice. Gas produces emissions of planet-warming gases, and Europe is bound by its own law to cut emissions by more than half by the end of the decade.
"The overriding strategic decision is to wean ourselves off Russian oil and gas," Frans Timmermans, the European Union's vice president for energy and climate, said in an interview on Wednesday at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. "Even if L.N.G. is slightly dirtier than pipeline gas, this overriding concern dictates our policies because we cannot be dependent on Russian energy supplies."
Mr. Timmermans's job is complicated by the fact that liquefied gas suppliers want to lock in long-term contracts. "I would hope we could limit the signing of contracts to, let's say, five or 10 years," he said, "and then see where we are in five or 10 years time and see how much more natural gas we would need before we can go for renewable."
For its part, the United States, the world's top exporter of liquefied gas, expects to sell to Europe "until at least 2030," according to an agreement announced in March to rev up gas supplies to the continent.
The European Union is also struggling to agree to ban Russian oil imports, fracturing a remarkably unified front against Russia, mostly because of Hungary's fierce resistance to the measure.
The European Union's €300 billion energy transition plan, known as RePower Europe, proposes to reduce electricity demand by insulating buildings, promoting rooftop solar and simplifying the permitting of renewable energy projects. At the moment, it can take seven years to get government permits for a wind or solar project. Mr. Timmermans said the bloc's leadership would urge countries to set up designated areas, such as land next to highways, to develop large renewable energy projects.
The trouble is, until all of that renewable energy starts delivering electricity, several countries 
#112
PARIS - France said on Wednesday that it would renationalize its state-backed electricity giant to help ensure the country's energy sovereignty as Europe faces a worsening energy crisis from Russia's war in Ukraine.
The move would give the government more control to fix a swirling storm of problems that have plagued France's nuclear energy program, the biggest in Europe, at a time when President Emmanuel Macron has pledged to blunt the pain of increasing living costs by shielding consumers from soaring energy prices.
Élisabeth Borne, the French prime minister, told lawmakers on Wednesday for her first major speech before Parliament that the shift was needed to ensure France's energy independence while also meeting a major goal of combating climate change.
"The energy transition requires nuclear power," she said.
Though France gets about 70 percent of its electricity from nuclear power, a bigger share than any other country in the world, Ms. Borne said it could also no longer count on Russian oil and gas.
The government must ensure its energy sovereignty by holding 100 percent of the capital in the company, Électricité de France, or EDF, she said, up from 84 percent currently. The company is France's main electricity producer and operates all of its nuclear plants.
Economic interventionism by the government is a strong tradition in France, even as it has mostly moved away from the sweeping nationalizations of the 1980s under François Mitterrand, the Socialist president at the time.
Still, the step was a symbolic one for President Emmanuel Macron. A former investment banker, he had been elected in 2017 on an avowedly pro-business platform that promised to cut regulation and reduce government spending. But it did not take long for him to follow in his predecessors' footsteps.
In 2017, his government nationalized France's largest shipyard, STX France, to prevent an Italian competitor from taking over. More recently, the Covid-19 pandemic and the conflict between Russia and Ukraine have accelerated his pivot from free-market reformer to state intervention advocate.
Mr. Macron is now insistent that the government should champion economic and energy sovereignty to bolster France's independence and to meet climate goals, including by regaining control of key national industries.
France is less dependent than European neighbors like Germany on Russian gas and oil. But to maintain that relative independence, upgrading the country's aging nuclear reactors has become crucial for the government as the war in Ukraine has sent energy prices soaring, fueling inflation and making the cost of living one of the biggest concerns for French people.
In February, Mr. Macron announced a 51.7 billion euro blueprint to overhaul France's nuclear program that included plans for EDF to construct the first of up to 14 mammoth next-generation pressurized water reactors by 2035.
Élie Cohen, an economist who has studied the nuclear sector, said that "the only solution is nationalization" because "the government has chosen an energy mix centered on nuclear power, and because EDF is now compelled to build more reactors while it doesn't have the resources to do so."
The government had already hinted that it was considering renationalization. During his campaign for re-election, Mr. Macron had said at a news conference that he wanted to implement long-term energy plans that would entail "regaining capital control of several industrial players."
EDF is one of France's most prominent industrial giants. Last year, the company employed over 165,000 people and earned a revenue of about 85 billion euros, or about $86 billion.
But most of France's nuclear infrastructure was built in the 1980s and has suffered from a lack of investment that came to a head in recent months with a mix of unexpected maintenance issues that have shut down around half of the country's atomic reactors - the most in Europe - and sent France's nuclear output tumbling to its lowest level in nearly 30 years.
The problems included a two-year backlog in required maintenance for dozens of aging reactors that was put off during coronavirus lockdowns; safety issues like corrosion and faulty welding seals on systems used to cool a reactor's radioactive core; and rising spring and summer temperatures that have made it harder to cool reactors.
Mr. Cohen, who works at the CNRS, France's national research organization, said that since its partial privatization in 2005, EDF had faced mounting industrial, financial and economic challenges.
In keeping with French and European competition rules, the company has been forced to sell power to smaller, third-party sellers at a price below its actual production costs and market prices.
The plan aimed to give fair access to nuclear energy and to make good on a political pledge to shield French households from rising energy prices, but it has proved punishing for EDF.
As recently as January, the government ordered EDF to sell more nuclear power to competitors in order to limit the increase of electricity prices in France, a measure that Bruno Le Maire, the finance minister, said would cost it up to 8.4 billion euros, or about $8.5 billion.
The government has also occasionally ordered EDF to cap its prices to keep market prices down, effectively squeezing the company's margins, even as it is already 43 billion euros, about $45 billion, in debt.
"EDF could not behave like a normal company, seeking investments and normal profitability," Mr. Cohen said.
Yves Marignac, a nuclear energy specialist at négaWatt, a research group in Paris, said the company "is no longer competitive under market conditions and no longer has financial resources."
This bleak economic situation has made it impossible for EDF to respond to Mr. Macron's ambitious plans for a wave of new-generation atomic reactors, in keeping with France's goal to slash carbon emissions and cut its reliance on foreign energy.
"The renationalization simply reflects the fact that EDF is not in a position to invest in the maintenance of existing reactors and in the creation of new reactors on the scale of the projects announced by the president," Mr. Marignac said.
"It signals the end of the illusion that nuclear power can blend into the private economy," he added.
France created EDF in 1946, after World War II, by nationalizing and merging over 1,400 smaller electricity producers. It remained state-owned until 2005, when the company was partially privatized.
Although Ms. Borne did not specify whether the government would proceed with a nationalization bill or buy out minority shareholders, who currently hold a 14 percent stake in EDF, her speech suggested the latter. Employees of EDF hold the remaining one percent stake.
"This development will enable EDF to strengthen its capacity to carry out ambitious projects that are essential for our energy future as quickly as possible," Ms. Borne said.
The French announcement came on the same day as European Union lawmakers voted in favor of considering some gas and nuclear energy projects as "green," giving them access to cheap loans and even state subsidies - a change that France had lobbied for amid Europe's growing push to wean itself off Russian oil and gas.
Inflation in the eurozone recently rose to a record 8.6 percent, as the fallout of the war in Ukraine and the economic conflict it has set off between Russia and Western Europe continued to drive up energy prices - although France's inflation rate, at 6.5 percent, is comparatively lower than that of other European countries.
Mr. Macron's newly appointed cabinet is expected to present a bill on Thursday that aims to help the French keep up with inflation by increasing several welfare benefits, capping rising rents, and creating subsidies for poorer households to buy essential food products.
#113
The secretary general of the United Nations, António Guterres, slammed oil companies on Wednesday for their "grotesque greed" and excessive profiting from rising fuel prices during the Ukraine war. He called for countries to tax those profits and distribute the proceeds to the poor.
The combined profits of the largest energy companies in the first quarter of this year were approximately $100 billion, Mr. Guterres said. He said every country had a role in the energy crisis and could be part of a solution, adding that there was "no room for hypocrisy."
"It is immoral for oil and gas companies to be making record profits from this energy crisis on the backs of the poorest people and communities and at a massive cost to the climate," Mr. Guterres told reporters at the U.N. headquarters in New York.
Soaring prices have sparked a debate. In the United States, Republicans have blamed federal regulations and environmental policies for shortfalls in energy production, while Democrats have asked why companies did not lower gasoline prices as oil prices eased somewhat since spiking after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Testifying before Congress in April, oil executives from six large companies said they were not engaging in price gouging and were merely responding to global commodity prices that were out of their control.
The U.N. has warned that the war in Ukraine has had far-reaching impact beyond its borders on food, energy and financial markets. Prices for fuels and food have risen across the world. Many countries are battling inflation, higher interest rates and growing debts.
Mr. Guterres said that the global energy crisis sparked by the war could lead to more political, social and economic upheavals, particularly in developing countries.
The United Nations formed a Global Crisis Response Group this year to recommend solutions to the interlocking crises. The group has produced two previous reports, on food and finance, and on Wednesday it released its third report, focused on energy.
The report laid out three proposals: tax the profits of energy companies and distribute the proceeds to vulnerable populations; manage energy demand by conserving energy and promoting public transportation; and accelerate the global transition to renewable energy.
"I urge people everywhere to send a clear message to the fossil fuel industry and their financiers: that this grotesque greed is punishing the poorest and most vulnerable people, while destroying our only common home," Mr. Guterres said.
Prices for food, crude oil and shipping have improved somewhat since early June, when the U.N. last issued a report on the economic fallout from the war, but natural gas prices have risen, said Rebeca Grynspan, the U.N.'s chief for trade and development.
But she warned that as winter approaches in the Northern Hemisphere, demand for energy will grow and the pressure on consumers and national governments will increase. The report, she said, presented workable options for countries and showed that the time to act on them, for long-term and short-term relief, was now.
#114
The prosecution of Vietnam's most prominent environmental activist, as well as others, has cast doubt on the country's commitment to cut coal.
When the Vietnamese government decided in 2016 to cut the use of coal in its next energy plan, it followed the advice of an unusual source: one of the country's most prominent environmentalists.
Nguy Thi Khanh was vocal about what the government had to do: She said it had to cut coal-fired power by 30,000 megawatts - equivalent to the capacity of all the coal plants in Texas and Pennsylvania. The government met her more than halfway, agreeing to a reduction of 20,000 megawatts.
It was a big victory for the country's environmentalists. But on Friday, Ms. Nguy, 46, was convicted of tax evasion and sentenced to two years in prison, according to three people with knowledge of the verdict. Her case has sent tremors of fear through the environmental movement.
Supporters of Ms. Nguy, Vietnam's first recipient of the prestigious Goldman Environmental Prize, say the tax evasion charge is a trumped-up one - punishment, they say, for her dogged campaign against coal. In January, the authorities imprisoned three other environmental activists, all of whom had spoken out against the Vietnamese government's coal policies.
Soft-spoken and self-effacing, Ms. Nguy produced reports that documented the risks for Vietnam, which has one of the fastest-growing economies in the world, to continue relying on coal. She traveled throughout the country, using science and statistics to persuade the public and sway local officials.
She also organized campaigns and mobilized communities, especially among young people, to advocate for the environment - activities that could be seen as a threat to the one-party state, which has long been intolerant of dissent in general.
Many environmentalists say the prosecution of Ms. Nguy, who is known as Khanh, and other activists calls into question Vietnam's pledges at a United Nations climate summit in Glasgow last year, when Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh vowed to phase out coal consumption by 2040. It was a significant development; Vietnam, a country of 99 million people, was the ninth-largest coal consumer globally.
"It makes no sense to us," said Michael Sutton, executive director of the Goldman Environmental Foundation, who has written to Vietnam's ambassador in Washington and called for Ms. Nguy's release.
"She's done everything to help Vietnam achieve its own goals and to make the country look good in the international arena," he added. "We're concerned about what this says for the future of and the success of Vietnam's stated energy ambitions."
Others saw the case as reflective of a worrisome trend.
"This is a very strong signal from the Communist Party that they are now willing to go much further to control civil society," said Trinh Huu Long, the co-director of Legal Initiatives for Vietnam, based in Taiwan. "And they will not tolerate even slight criticism."
Before Ms. Nguy's advocacy, Vietnam had little in the way of renewable energy. But a growing awareness of the health costs of burning fossil fuels prompted the government to embrace solar power. Many local governments offered tax exemptions and attractive tariffs to encourage investment. It worked. Vietnam became the country with the largest installed capacity of solar and wind power in Southeast Asia.
But many officials pushed back against renewables. In several draft plans, the government has flip-flopped on its policy, initially indicating that it wanted to continue its reliance on coal. There were fears that weaning the country off coal could hurt the economy and that renewable energy could be an expensive and unreliable way to power the country.
In many ways, the treatment of Ms. Nguy illuminates the Vietnamese government's conflicted approach to environmental protection and infighting among various ministries. Confronted by rising public anger over air pollution and chemical spills, the government has allowed environmental advocacy groups and tolerated limited protests.
But it also faced criticism from officials who called it unfair that developed countries have long been allowed to pump huge amounts of greenhouse gasses while Vietnam is being pressured to find cleaner ways to develop its manufacturing sector.
"They may be concerned that Vietnam's transition away from coal may harm their interests, so they want to silence her," said Le Hong Hiep, a senior fellow at the Vietnam Studies Program at Singapore's ISEAS - Yusof Ishak Institute. "I think that may be the key reason for her arrest."
This tension played out in Vietnam just two weeks before last year's U.N. summit.
The Ministry of Industry and Trade had just proposed a doubling of coal-fired power capacity, according to a draft plan. Ms. Nguy urged the public to circulate a letter addressed to the prime minister, signed by multiple environmental groups, warning him that the policy could "risk Vietnam's isolation in the international community."
"Dark times come not because of a lack of sunshine, but because of a lack of leadership," Ms. Nguy wrote in a Facebook post. "We still believe and hope in the determination of the prime minister and of senior leaders to make a climate breakthrough."
They did. Almost immediately after the summit, the United States, Britain, the European Union and Japan started discussing possible energy deals with Vietnam. In March, John Kerry, the special U.S. climate envoy, visited Vietnam, promising to increase engagement on climate and clean energy. In May, the Group of 7 major economies announced that it would give Vietnam financial and technical support to help the country transition from coal-fired power to renewable energy.
Jake Schmidt, senior strategic director for international climate at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said he has "zero confidence" now that Vietnam can deliver on the energy transition with the crackdown.
Ms. Nguy knew her activism had made her a target. Julien Vincent, executive director of Market Forces, an Australia-based group that focuses on institutions financing environmentally destructive projects, said Ms. Nguy told him her office had been raided by police officers and described how "the police or government agencies are never too far away."
"They are always following them," Mr. Vincent said. "She's said that was part of daily life."
The arrest of Ms. Nguy baffled her friends because she stood out for her nonconfrontational approach. She has said she admires Greta Thunberg but has acknowledged the Swedish teenager's style of climate activism would not be accepted in Vietnam. She has said one of her primary motivations is being a mother to three children, ages 20, 15 and 10.
Coal was an issue close to Ms. Nguy's heart. Born and raised in a rural area of ??northern Vietnam, Ms. Nguy's family lived near a coal-fired thermal power plant. She remembered the dust and the gray pall caused by the plant.
At that time, Vietnam was wedded to coal. In 2011, the government said it planned to add around 75 gigawatts of new coal by 2030. Vietnam had only four gigawatts of coal at that time, and the new goal - the total coal capacity of a little more than Germany and Poland combined - would put the country on track to have the fourth largest number of coal plants in the world, behind only China, the United States and India.
That year, Ms. Nguy helped set up Green Innovation and Development Center, or GreenID, a group aiming to create a renewable energy pathway for Vietnam. A year later, she established the Vietnam Sustainable Energy Alliance, now comprising 12 organizations.
After Ms. Nguy won the Goldman prize in 2018, the People's Army Newspaper, by the Vietnamese defense ministry, called her an "Asian environmental hero," for helping "the state make policies for sustainable development."
The enthusiasm did not last long. In February, the police in Hanoi arrested her.
Now in a detention center in Hanoi, Ms. Nguy is in good health and keeps up with her meditation practice, according to a person with knowledge of her situation.
Before her sentencing, she said she was hoping for the shortest prison sentence possible, the source said. Her goal: to return to work soon.
#115
Critics say the decision is likely to reverberate beyond Europe's borders and hamper its efforts to lead the global climate negotiations. In a landmark vote for Europe's climate and energy policies, the European Parliament on Wednesday endorsed labeling some gas and nuclear energy projects "green," allowing them access to hundreds of billions of euros in cheap loans and even state subsidies.
The decision placed the European Union's heavy thumb on the scale of a global debate about how and how quickly major industrialized economies can move from their heavy reliance on fossil fuels - and it immediately proved controversial, prompting boos from opponents inside and outside the parliamentary building in Strasbourg, France.
Critics said it would lock in and prolong Europe's reliance on fossil fuels, while the measure's proponents, including in the European Commission, the E.U. executive arm that drafted it, said it was part of a pragmatic approach to the transition to renewable energy, especially as Europe seeks to wean itself off Russian fuel imports in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine.
The measure had been in the works even before Russia's tanks crossed the border, but it gained urgency as the European Union responded to the invasion by banning Russian energy sources, including most coal and oil. Left untouched has been Russian gas, on which Europe remains heavily dependent.
The Russian invasion presented European countries with an urgent choice: to get gas from anywhere other than Russia, or double down on renewable sources like wind and solar.
Wednesday's vote signaled Europe's intention to prolong its reliance on gas - the principal component of which is methane, which speeds up global warming.
The choice could undermine a competing European imperative to cut its greenhouse gas emissions by more than half by 2030. E3G, an energy research group, said it was "at odds with the overall direction the E.U. is taking."
The amendment the Parliament backed on Wednesday was part of a broader E.U. effort to give banks and other organizations tools to evaluate which projects deserve loans and funds on the basis of being environmentally friendly.
The policy, known as the "taxonomy," is meant to stop "greenwashing," the pervasive practice of mislabeling energy projects as environmentally friendly, and it could determine where hundreds of billions of dollars in investments will flow in coming decades.
But critics of the proposal contend the classifying gas and nuclear projects as sustainable is in itself "greenwashing" and runs counter to European efforts to slash carbon emissions by 55 percent by 2030 and to reach carbon neutrality by 2050, while also increasing the risks of nuclear accidents.
Greta Thunberg, the Swedish climate activist, called Wednesday's decision hypocrisy.
"This will delay a desperately needed real sustainable transition and deepen our dependency on Russian fuels. The hypocrisy is striking, but unfortunately not surprising," she wrote on Twitter after the vote.
The classification of gas and nuclear power as "green" was contentious even beyond environmental circles, with its opponents in the European Parliament spread across the political spectrum, including from the right.
"Billions of euros in 'green' financing now risk being diverted into polluting energy sources that are far from being harmless and temporary, at the expense of energy efficiency and renewables," the European Environmental Bureau, a Pan-European environmental lobby group, said in a statement shortly after the vote, calling it an "act of institutional greenwashing."
But the measure eventually succeeded with strong backing from Germany and France, Europe's two leading economies, and it will help both of them sustain their energy policies and industries.
In the aftermath of the devastating 2011 Fukushima nuclear catastrophe in Japan, Germany moved away from nuclear energy entirely, pledging to shift to renewable energy sources. But it has remained hugely reliant on Russian gas as a "bridge" and fallen back on the use of coal especially during shortfalls.
France, by contrast, gets 70 percent of its energy from aging nuclear plants, which have been plagued by problems and shutdowns in recent years. It recently announced a blueprint budgeted at 51.7 billion euros - more than $53 billion - to build up to 14 next-generation reactors by 2035.
While nuclear energy generation does not directly produce carbon emissions, the specter of nuclear accidents has left many wary of it on a continent still traumatized by the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986.
The European Commission has said that it knows that gas and nuclear are not perfectly aligned with environmental goals and carry risks, but that it still considers them important in Europe's transition from its current energy mix toward a carbon-neutral future that will be mostly built around renewables. It calls gas a "low emission" fuel, which is only accurate when compared to coal, which is very polluting, but not compared to wind and solar.
"This vote is important recognition of our pragmatic and realistic approach in helping many member states on their transition path towards climate neutrality," the commission said in a statement shortly after the vote.
"Climate neutrality is our objective and legal obligation. We are committed to using all available tools to move away from high carbon-emitting energy sources," it added.
These goals, and the means to achieve them over the next few decades, are key to Europe's efforts to lead the world on climate policy. But Europe's decision to classify gas and nuclear energy as "green" is now likely to reverberate widely and could also undercut European efforts to coax other countries, like China, to rein in their own emissions, analysts said.
The new classification for gas is likely to make it far harder to meet a climate goal championed at the last international climate negotiations: cutting methane.
Methane is more potent in its ability to warm the planet than carbon dioxide emissions, although it breaks down in the atmosphere sooner. Over 20 years, it can create 80 times as much warming as the same amount of carbon dioxide.
In short, cutting methane emissions would slow down warming more quickly, which is the argument that the European Union itself used when it joined the United States last November in announcing a global pledge to reduce methane emissions by 30 percent by 2030.
Prominent nongovernmental organizations including WWF and Greenpeace said they planned to litigate against the E.U. labeling of gas and nuclear, and European lawmakers are also expected to sue the European Commission over its handling of the policy.
But apart from a divergence from its environmental goals, the step on Wednesday also constitutes a strategic error in dealing with Russia, other critics said.
So far E.U. nations have banned Russian coal and most will phase out even the import of Russian oil in response to the Ukraine invasion, but they remain especially dependent on Russian gas for electricity and heating.
Russia has used its gas exports to Europe as a lever to exert pressure on the European Union. The bloc is trying to get gas from other sources, such as Africa, the Middle East and the United States, but is far from banning the Russian imports because it needs them too much.
By doubling down on longer-term gas investments, the European Union practically locks in higher global demand for the fuel longer term, even if it doesn't buy it from Russia itself. That will mean that Russia can continue selling its gas to other countries at high prices, perpetuating a vital revenue stream.
Some Ukrainian experts and lawmakers decried the decision.
"Vladimir Putin is rubbing his hands with glee today," Inna Sovsun, a Ukrainian deputy, said in emailed comments. "Europe just handed him a huge present by classifying gas and nuclear as sustainable. A gift that will channel billions into his pockets and further boost his war chest."
#116
CANBERRA, Australia - After years of being denounced as a laggard on climate change, Australia shifted course on Thursday, with the Lower House of Parliament passing a bill that commits the government to reducing carbon emissions by at least 43 percent from 2005 levels by 2030, and reaching net zero by 2050.
With critical support from the Australian Greens now in place, the new Labor government is expected to push the legislation through the Senate in a few weeks.
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said it would put the country "on the right side of history." The 43 percent pledge brings Australia closer to Canada, South Korea and Japan, while still falling short of commitments from the United States, the European Union and Britain.
"The impact of climate change is real. We need a response which is real," Mr. Albanese told reporters on Thursday. "The government is offering that."
In Parliament, the climate minister, Chris Bowen, said simply: "This is a good day for our country."
But the commitment - which Mr. Albanese campaigned on as Labor challenged the long-governing conservative coalition in the federal election in May - is widely seen as long overdue, and just the start of a vital economic transition in a country that is the world's third-largest fossil fuel exporter, after Saudi Arabia and Russia.
Amanda McKenzie, who runs the Climate Council, an association of scientists and community leaders who have called for years for Australia to do more on climate change, called the climate change bill a "springboard" that will require the government to hold itself accountable while creating a framework for investment in renewable energy.
Richie Merzian, the climate and energy program director at the Australia Institute, a nonpartisan think tank, described the bill as "a huge leap forward," while pointing out that there was still a long road ahead.
The government has refused to accept proposals for Australia to reject any new coal and gas projects - a major point of contention among a series of independent members of Parliament who won seats in mostly conservative districts on pledges to attack climate change aggressively.
Mr. Albanese and his Labor government also rejected a separate Greens amendment to reduce emissions by 75 percent by 2030.
The Greens leader, Adam Bandt, has said repeatedly that the government's lower target would lead to destroyed crops, devastating natural disasters and the demise of the Great Barrier Reef, which will continue to struggle under current warming trends, according to a report released on Thursday by Australian marine scientists.
They found that parts of the reef had begun to recover from a series of devastating bleaching events in recent years, but predicted that the world-renowned ecosystem would face frequent and longer-lasting heat waves unless there was "immediate global action on climate change."
"That is the science," Mr. Bandt said. "We're not doing this to try to stop pollution a little bit. We are doing this to try to stop climate change becoming a runaway chain reaction."
He described his support for the climate bill as a first step toward pushing Australia to do more, and many climate experts argue that the country can meet its international commitments only if it stops approving new coal and gas projects and eventually closes those that already exist.
"They need to address Albanese's dissembling narrative that our coal and gas is somehow greener than others, and their drug dealer's defense that if we don't sell it, then others will," said Robyn Eckersley, an expert on the politics of climate change at the University of Melbourne. "This is pernicious and a direct evasion of Australia's responsibilities."
#117
SYDNEY, Australia - A few minutes after taking the stage to declare victory in Australia's election on Saturday, Anthony Albanese, the incoming Labor prime minister, promised to transform climate change from a source of political conflict into a generator of economic growth.
"Together we can end the climate wars," he told his supporters, who cheered for several seconds. "Together we can take advantage of the opportunity for Australia to be a renewable energy superpower."
With that comment and his win - along with a surge of votes for candidates outside the two-party system who made combating global warming a priority - the likelihood of a significant shift in Australia's climate policy has suddenly increased.
How far the country goes will depend on the final tallies, which are still being counted. But for voters, activists and scientists who spent years in despair, lamenting the fossil fuel industry's hold on the conservatives who have run Australia for most of the past three decades, Saturday's results amount to an extraordinary reversal.
A country known as a global climate laggard, with minimal 2030 targets for cuts to carbon emissions, has finally tossed aside a deny-and-delay approach to climate change that most Australians, in polls, have said they no longer want.
"This is the long-overdue climate election Australia has been waiting for," said Joëlle Gergis, an award-winning climate scientist and writer from the Australian National University. "It was a defining moment in our nation's history."
Yet it remains to be seen whether the factors that led to that shift can be as powerful and persuasive as the countervailing forces which are so entrenched.
In Australia, as in the United States, ending or altering many decades' worth of traditional energy habits will be difficult.
In the last fiscal year alone, Australian federal, state and territory governments provided about 11.6 billion Australian dollars ($8.2 billion) worth of subsidies to coal and other fossil fuel industries.
An additional 55.3 billion Australian dollars ($39 billion) has already been committed to subsidizing gas and oil extraction, coal-fired power, coal railways, ports and carbon capture and storage (even though most carbon capture projects fail).
As Dr. Gergis pointed out in a recent essay, "That is 10 times more than the Emergency Response Fund, and over 50 times the budget of the National Recovery and Resilience Agency."
In other words, Australia still spends far more money to bolster the companies causing the planet to warm than it does helping people deal with the costs tied to the greenhouse gases they emit.
Over the past few years, there has been a buildup in renewable energy investment, too, but nothing on the same scale. And during the campaign, Mr. Albanese's Labor Party tried to avoid directly tackling that mismatch.

On Election Day in Singleton, a bustling town north of Sydney in New South Wales, where over 20 percent of residents work in mining, Labor banners reading "Send a miner to Canberra" hung next to signs from the National Party, part of the departing conservative coalition, that read "Protect local mining jobs." And both parties' candidates were upbeat about the region's mining future.
"While people are buying our coal we'll definitely be selling it," said Dan Repacholi, a former miner who won the seat for Labor.
The coal mining industry is thriving in the area, but so is private investment in renewables, especially hydrogen. "We're going to have a massive boom here through both of those industries going up and up and up," Mr. Repacholi said.
During the campaign, Mr. Albanese positioned himself as a "both-and" candidate, pledging support for new coal mines as well as renewables - in large part, to hold on to blue-collar areas like Singleton.
But now he will face a lot of pressure to go further on climate, faster.
The great swing against the conservative coalition on Saturday included a groundswell for the Australian Greens, who could end up being needed by Labor to form a minority government.
Adam Bandt, the Greens' leader, has said that a ban on new coal and gas projects would be the party's top priority in any power-sharing agreement.
Several new independent lawmakers, who campaigned on demands for Australia to increase its 2030 target for carbon emission cuts to 60 percent below 2005 levels - far beyond Labor's 43 percent commitment - will also be pressuring Mr. Albanese and his opposition.
"Both sides of politics are going to have to reorient themselves," said Saul Griffith, an energy policy expert who advocates policies that would make it easier for people to power their cars and heat their homes with electricity. "This is a very clear message on climate."
Like many other experts, Mr. Griffith said he was not particularly interested in bold official promises to end coal mining, which he expects to fade on its own through economic pressure.
New gas projects present a bigger problem. An immense extraction effort being planned for the gas fields of the Beetaloo Basin in the Northern Territory could produce enough carbon emissions to destroy any hope of Australia's meeting reduction targets on par with those of other developed nations.
Climate action advocates are mostly hoping to start with legislation like the bill introduced by Zali Steggall, an independent, which would set up a framework for setting stricter emissions targets and working toward them through rigorous science and research.
Robyn Eckersley, an expert on the politics of climate change at the University of Melbourne, warned that Labor, the Greens and independents needed to "play a long game," keeping in mind that a carbon tax caused a backlash that set Australian climate policy back by nearly a decade.
Fixating on a single number or a single idea, she said, would impede progress and momentum.
"It's important to get something in and build a consensus around it," Professor Eckersley said. "Having debates about how to improve it is better than swinging back and forth between something and nothing."
Mr. Griffith said Australia had a shot at becoming a global model for the energy transition that climate change requires by leveraging its record-breaking uptake of rooftop solar. More than one in four homes in Australia now have solar panels, outpacing every other major economy; they provide electricity for about one-fifth of what it costs through the traditional grid.
"The real action on climate has got to be community-led," Mr. Griffith said. He argued that the election results were encouraging because they showed the issue resonating with a wider range of the electorate.
"It's a less divisive set of politics, it's coming from the center," he said. "It's a middle-class uprising, and so the climate action isn't as partisan."
Sadly, it's taken a lot of suffering to get there. Australia has yet to recover fully from the record-breaking bush fires of 2020, which were followed by two years of widespread flooding.
The Great Barrier Reef also just experienced its sixth year of bleaching - disturbingly, the first during a La Niña climate pattern, when cooler temperatures typically prevent overheating.
"People no longer need to use their imaginations to try and understand what climate change looks like in this country," Dr. Gergis said. "Australians have been living the consequences of inaction."
#118
Canada's government said it would permit the return of a turbine to Germany that's needed to operate a key Russian pipeline, a step intended to help Berlin ease a natural-gas shortage that has sent prices soaring but one that was taken over the objections of Ukraine.
The turbine had been sent to Canada for repairs, but its return had been held up by sanctions against Russia.
Russia last month slashed natural gas flows through the pipeline, Nord Stream 1, which connects Germany's northern coast with Russian gas fields, saying Canada had not returned the turbine "in due time." Siemens Energy, the Munich-based maker of the turbine, largely confirmed a statement from Gazprom, the Russian gas giant, that the turbine was essential to providing the amount of gas normally sent to Germany.
Germany, Europe's largest economy and Russia's biggest European gas customer, has for years relied on Russia for most of its gas. It quickly shelved plans for another Russian gas pipeline, Nord Stream 2, after Moscow's invasion of Ukraine in February, but it continues to buy Russian natural gas.
Germany's economy minister, Robert Habeck, had been working to get the turbine returned - even making a public appeal - and had warned that the country was in a "gas crisis" that could worsen in coming months.
Canada's minister of natural resources, Jonathan Wilkinson, said in a statement Saturday that his government would grant "a time-limited and revocable" permit to allow for the turbine's return to Germany.
He said the decision to effectively exempt the turbine from sanctions was taken after discussing the matter with allies, and was intended to support Europe's access to "reliable and affordable energy as they continue to transition away from Russian oil and gas."
"Absent a necessary supply of natural gas, the German economy will suffer very significant hardship," he said in a statement.
Ukraine's government called on Canada to reconsider the decision, saying in a statement that it amounted to changing sanction terms to suit "the whims of Russia" and predicting "it will strengthen Moscow's sense of impunity." The chief executive of Ukraine's national gas monopoly told state media on Sunday that the decision set a "very bad precedent."

Wilkinson said in his statement that Canada was "unwavering" in its determination to continue punishing Russia for its invasion of Ukraine.
The Nord Steam 1 pipeline is scheduled to be shut down for 10 days starting Monday for annual maintenance. The dispute over the turbine had raised fears that it might remain offline for longer.
#119
BERLIN - Germany will restart coal-fired power plants in order to conserve natural gas, the country's economy minister announced on Sunday, amid concerns about a looming supply shortage after Russia cut gas deliveries to Europe this week.
The move was part of a series of measures, including new incentives for companies to burn less natural gas, announced by Germany as Europe takes steps to deal with reduced energy supplies from Russia.
Since European countries imposed sanctions to punish Moscow following Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February, Russia has responded by cutting off gas supplies to several European countries. Last week, the Russian energy giant Gazprom also reduced flows through the Nord Stream pipeline, an important undersea link that carries gas directly to Germany.
Gazprom blamed maintenance issues for the reductions, but European leaders have called the move a political tactic by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
"The situation is serious," Robert Habeck, the economy minister who is also Germany's vice chancellor, said in a statement on Sunday, laying out the steps that would be taken to ensure that more gas is available to divert into storage so the country has enough to get through the winter. They include bringing back online coal-fired power plants that had been drawn down to reduce carbon emissions, although the statement did not specify how many plants would be affected.
"That's bitter, but it's simply necessary in this situation to lower gas usage," said Mr. Habeck, a member of the environmentalist Greens party. "The gas storage tanks must be full by winter. That is our top priority."
Germany has relied heavily on energy imports from Russia for decades. Last year, Russian imports accounted for 55 percent of the country's natural gas supply. But after Moscow's Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine, Berlin began purchasing gas from Norway, the United States and the United Arab Emirates, reducing its purchases from Russia by about 20 percent.
The government has nevertheless insisted that Russian gas will be needed to ensure storage tanks are at least 90 percent full by November - in keeping with a law passed earlier this year to ensure a sufficient supply of natural gas, which is used largely for heating and manufacturing. One-third of Germany's homes are heated with natural gas, while it is used for only about 15 percent of all electricity generation.
A law allowing a return to the use of coal in power generation is expected to pass next month. By the end of the summer, a model should be in place that would allow companies to auction gas, as part of efforts to encourage Germany's industrial sector to reduce its reliance on the fuel.
Last week, Germany's powerful industrial lobby, the Federation of German Industry, said that companies were already switching to coal, as part of efforts to make more natural gas available for storage. Many have also been seeking alternative, more sustainable sources of energy, it said, while emphasizing that such transitions take time.
The German government recently called on citizens to cut back their energy use in light of the strained supply situation.
"It's obviously Putin's strategy to make us insecure, to drive up prices and divide us," Mr. Habeck said. "We will not allow that to happen. We will defend ourselves resolutely, precisely and thoughtfully."
#120
For decades, crude oil piped in from Russia has flowed into a giant refinery in Schwedt, an industrial city on the Oder River in Germany, providing jobs for thousands of workers and a reliable source of gasoline, jet fuel and heating oil for residents of Berlin.
Now, as European Union member states struggle to agree on the terms of an oil embargo to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine, the Schwedt refinery has become the major stumbling block in Germany's effort to sever its reliance on Russian oil. The prospect has raised alarm among the refinery's 1,200 employees.
Germany relies on Russia for about a third of its oil, and Robert Habeck, the economy minister and vice chancellor, has spent weeks preparing for an embargo, jetting from the United Arab Emirates to Washington to Warsaw to line up alternative sources of crude.
"The last third is the problem," Mr. Habeck said in a video aimed at explaining the situation to Germans. And most of that Russian oil comes through the refinery in Schwedt.
The refinery is a looming symbol of how deeply Germany's oil and gas needs are tied to its giant energy exporter to the east. The PCK refinery - the name is a nod to its East German roots as the state-owned Petrolchemisches Kombinat, or Petrochemical Combine - is owned by Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company. It is connected to the Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline, one of the world's longest, bringing oil from Siberian wells to Western Europe.
And it remains an essential part of Germany's energy needs, producing fuels for Berlin - Germany's largest city - and nearby areas, including parts of Poland. Sourcing enough oil to replace the 12 million tons of crude processed each year in Schwedt - via German and Polish ports to the north - is only one piece of the puzzle, because Rosneft has told German officials that it has no interest in operating the refinery using non-Russian oil.
To address that problem, Germany's Parliament last week approved a law that would make it easier for the government to seize essential infrastructure under foreign ownership to prevent a national emergency. Should the oil embargo go through, German officials said, the new law would allow Berlin to ensure an adequate supply of oil products until another company could be found to acquire Rosneft's stake.
Shell, Europe's largest energy company, which holds a 37.5 percent stake in PCK, said recently that it would support the refinery "even at the cost of economic losses in order to maintain supplies to the region." Last year, Shell sought to sell its stake in the refinery and Rosneft moved to acquire it, but Germany's economy ministry, which weighs political and strategic aspects of foreign investments, has yet to approve the transaction.
Another energy firm, Alcmene, part of the privately owned British energy holding company Liwathon Group, has expressed interest in investing in Schwedt. "We would be able to deliver security of supply and full utilization of the PCK refinery through German ports" without government subsidies, Alcmene said in an emailed statement.
Chancellor Olaf Scholz has made clear that he was aware of concerns surrounding the refinery, and considered ensuring its future a priority.
"We are looking very closely at how this can actually work out," he told a recent meeting of his party in the state of Brandenburg. "We're also going to make sure that employees aren't left on their own."
Fears that layoffs could be around the corner drew hundreds of workers, many dressed in the PCK's official fluorescent orange and forest green colors, to the company canteen this month for a town-hall-style meeting with Mr. Habeck.
Like other regions of the former East Germany, Schwedt experienced widespread job losses after the collapse of communism. Memories of 25 percent unemployment still haunt the region.
In addition, the refinery is not just a source of oil and income; it is also the core of the city's identity. After the Soviet Union flattened Schwedt at the end of World War II, the arrival of the oil pipeline - its name, Druzhba, means friendship in Russian - and refinery in the late 1960s drew thousands of workers and their families, lured by secure jobs. PCK's slogan is: "We move Berlin and Brandenburg!"
Today, roughly a tenth of the city's 30,000 inhabitants hold secure union jobs at the refinery and in supporting industries. Many workers used the meeting with Mr. Habeck to question the government's approach.
"Why should we take a business partner that for decades has been reliable and always delivered and slap them with an embargo?" asked one man who identified himself as having worked at the refinery for 27 years.
"My wish would actually be to keep the Druzhba pipeline out of the embargo entirely," said another employee, who identified herself as the mother of three young children. "There is no alternative that is profitable."
Reporters were asked not to identify the employees who spoke during the event, to protect their privacy.
Mr. Habeck tried to assure the crowd that the refinery would keep operating. "If everything functions as it would on paper," crude from Norway or the Middle East could be shipped from the ports of Rostock, Germany, and Gdansk, Poland, both connected to the refinery by pipelines.
At the same time, he acknowledged, there were several points in the process where it could hit a snag.
The PCK facility, like other refineries, is engineered to process the particular kind of crude oil arriving from Russia. Crude from other countries would have to be mixed with oil held in reserve tanks on Germany's northwestern coast to create a suitable blend.
Getting that reserve oil to the pipeline in Rostock would require a seven-day journey by sea, because no pipelines cross the former boundary that divided East and West Germany, and the country's main railway cargo operator has almost no oil cars.
Another potential complication: The Polish government is refusing to work with Russian entities, and it has told German officials that as long as Rosneft holds an interest in the refinery, no oil will be arriving from Gdansk.
"We can't be completely sure about anything that we are doing," Mr. Habeck told the refinery employees. "But at least it has been thoroughly discussed and thought through."
Ultimately, Mr. Habeck and local officials would like to see the refinery abandon fossil fuels and focus on processing renewable energy. In recent years, PCK has invested in developing synthetic fuel with a focus on hydrogen. Verbio, a company producing ethanol from local sources, has been operating on the site of the refinery, feeding bioenergy into the city's heating system.
Officials in Berlin stressed the economic appeal of the surrounding region, pointing to the newly completed Tesla assembly plant and Intel's announcement of a $19 billion chip-making facility. Both companies were drawn by an abundance of renewable energy, said Carsten Schneider, Chancellor Scholz's liaison for eastern Germany, who also spoke to the Schwedt residents.
"I assured them that the German government would not just abandon them, but would make an effort, both for a short-term solution of securing oil from somewhere else and for the long-term restructuring toward production of regenerative energy," he said.
The city's mayor, Annekathrin Hoppe, said she would like to set up a campus for start-ups, incubators and other energy innovators near the refinery to promote the transition to green energy production. But, she said, that would require "sums in the millions or billions."
Despite all the attention that politicians from Berlin have showered on her city, she said, she had yet to see a timeline or any concrete assurances that people would be able to keep their jobs, or any pledges of financial assistance.
"It was a good start," she said of the past weeks' flurry of visits. "But it was only a start."
#121
President Emmanuel Macron announced a major buildup of France's huge nuclear power program on Thursday, pledging to construct up to 14 new-generation reactors and a fleet of smaller nuclear plants as the country seeks to slash planet-warming emissions and cut its reliance on foreign energy.
The announcement represented an about-face for Mr. Macron, who had previously pledged to reduce France's reliance on nuclear power but has pivoted to burnishing an image as a pronuclear president battling climate change as he faces a tough re-election bid in April.
"What our country needs is the rebirth of France's nuclear industry," Mr. Macron said at a nuclear turbine factory in the industrial city of Belfort in eastern France as throngs of workers and political officials gathered around. "The time has come for a nuclear renaissance," he added.
Mr. Macron's move is seen as a pivotal moment in a growing debate over nuclear power in Europe. The divide has taken on new dimensions as leaders pledge to avert a climate catastrophe and grapple with an energy crisis that has sent prices for natural gas and electricity surging to record highs - in part because nuclear energy production has fallen.
Mr. Macron has been leading a coalition of like-minded countries in backing nuclear energy to speed up the push to net-zero emissions and energy independence. That has opened a rift with a group of nations led by Germany, which is wary of nuclear proliferation and will close its last atomic power plants this year, following a 2011 policy set by former Chancellor Angela Merkel after the nuclear disaster in Fukushima, Japan.
The French plan is aimed at cementing the country's position as Europe's biggest atomic power producer and positioning Électricité de France, or EDF, the troubled state-backed operator, to compete more aggressively against Chinese and American companies in the growing global market for nuclear energy.
With an estimated starting price of 50 billion euros ($57 billion), Mr. Macron's blueprint consists of constructing six mammoth next-generation pressurized water reactors at existing nuclear sites around France starting in 2028, with an option to consider building up to eight more by 2050.
Saying it had "fallen behind" in the nuclear energy race, Mr. Macron said France would also build a prototype small modular reactor - a new type of scaled-down nuclear power plant - by 2030, pitting the country against a growing number of others pushing out the technology.
Environmental groups denounced the plan, saying that Mr. Macron had not consulted Parliament or French citizens, and that nuclear power, which doesn't produce direct carbon emissions but generates long-term radioactive waste, was a nonstarter in the fight against climate change.
"This is a crucial decision that would engage France for centuries in terms of the hazardous waste that nuclear facilities produce," Nicolas Nace, the head of energy transition policy at Greenpeace France, said. "There has been no real democratic debate about this - just a candidate making opportunistic declarations," he added.
Climate change and the nuclear industry's potential role in it have become a central issue in France's coming presidential election. Most candidates, with the exception of France's Greens party, have said nuclear power is needed to meet climate goals.
The nuclear industry is a national priority in France, creating about 200,000 jobs directly and indirectly.
France relies on an aging fleet of 56 nuclear reactors - the most after the United States, with 93 - to generate 70 percent of its electricity and to export energy to other countries. But France has fallen from dominance as EDF, which has grappled with a series of longstanding setbacks, faces a full-blown crisis just as Europe struggles with an energy crunch.
The company warned this week that its nuclear energy output would slump to the lowest levels since the 1990s because of problems at some sites, sending European energy prices to fresh highs. The company has temporarily closed 10 reactors, down from 17 in December, for maintenance, including to fix cracks found in pipes at some plants.
The energy shortfall has left France in the awkward position this winter of leaning more heavily on its coal-fired power stations, tapping coal-generated electricity from Germany and relying on natural gas imports as prices spike amid the conflict between Russia and Ukraine.
While Mr. Macron has sought to position himself as a European leader in transitioning to a carbon-free future, France's wind and solar power capacity is not yet sufficient to make up for the shortfall in its nuclear energy output.
On Thursday, Mr. Macron said France would ramp up those power sources by seeking to create at least 50 offshore wind farms and doubling France's capacity of onshore wind power. France will also increase its solar power capacity tenfold, to generate over 100 gigawatts of power, by 2030, he said.
"We need to massively develop renewable energies," Mr. Macron said, "because it is the only way to meet our immediate electricity needs, since it takes 15 years to build a nuclear reactor."
Whether EDF can fulfill Mr. Macron's orders remains to be seen. The debt-laden company has been grappling with corrosion problems at old nuclear reactors for years. It has also struggled to convince foreign buyers that it can deliver projects on time and within budget.
The company's pressurized reactors - the type that Mr. Macron called for in his speech - have faced severe delays and cost overruns.
In France, a reactor in the northwestern town of Flamanville that was supposed to be completed in 2012 at a cost of €3 billion has faced setbacks and won't open until at least 2023, with the bill ballooning to over €12 billion.
Another EDF reactor, in Finland, was planned to open in 2009; it now won't start full power production until June. The EDF-backed Taishan Nuclear Power Plant in China's Guangdong Province faced what the company said were "performance issues" last year.
Mr. Macron said the government would "assume its responsibilities" in securing EDF's finances and its short- and medium-term financing capacity. France will provide the company with what is likely to be tens of billions in state aid - made possible in part after Mr. Macron lobbied Brussels to classify nuclear energy as a green investment.
Mr. Macron's decision to cast the renewal of France's nuclear energy arsenal around the fight against climate change at the Belfort nuclear turbine factory was strategic. General Electric took over the plant from the French company Alstom in 2015 when Mr. Macron, then France's economy minister, approved the sale, which his political opponents criticized.
On Thursday, hours before Mr. Macron spoke at the plant, EDF closed a deal with the blessing of the Élysée Palace to buy back part of the operations from General Electric.
#122
WASHINGTON - President Biden said Tuesday that the United States was punishing Russia for a "vicious war of choice" in Ukraine by banning importation of the country's oil, gas and coal, but warned Americans that the decision would inevitably mean painful, higher prices for energy and at the gas pump.
"I said I would level with the American people from the beginning," Mr. Biden said. "And when I first spoke to this, I said defending freedom is going to cost. It's going to cost us as well, in the United States."
White House officials said the president signed an executive order on Tuesday that prohibits anyone in the United States from importing "Russian crude oil and certain petroleum products, liquefied natural gas and coal." It also bans new U.S. investment directly in Russia's energy sector or in foreign companies that are investing in energy production in Russia, officials said.
Mr. Biden's decision effectively shuts off the relatively small flow of oil into the United States, which receives less than 10 percent of its energy resources from Russia. Republicans and Democrats in Congress had been urging the president to take the step to ensure that Mr. Putin was not profiting from American purchases of oil.
Britain on Tuesday joined the United States in taking action. In an announcement at about the same time as Mr. Biden was speaking, Britain said it would phase out imports of Russian oil by the end of the year to increase the economic isolation of Russia's president, Vladimir. V. Putin.
The British decision does not affect Russian gas supplies and would give oil importers several months to make alternative plans to try to avoid any disruption.
Unlike several other western European nations, Britain is not a big importer of Russian energy. Still, Russia accounted for 8.3 percent of Britain's crude oil imports in 2020, according to government statistics, and prices have already been rising at gas stations while other energy costs, for industry and domestic heating, have spiked there.
In brief remarks before heading to Texas for an event about veterans, Mr. Biden vowed to do what he could to minimize the impact of the decision on gas prices, but he did not specify whether the United States would seek to import oil from other countries already under sanctions, like Venezuela or Iran.
And he warned oil companies in the United States not to take advantage of the decision by arbitrarily raising prices.
"Russia's aggression is costing us all," he said. "And it's no time for profiteering or price gouging."
Officials said Mr. Biden had struggled for days about whether the take the step amid concerns about whether it would accelerate the already rapid rise in the price of gasoline - a potent political issue for Americans in a critical election year.
In announcing his decision, Mr. Biden acknowledged that some European countries, including Germany and France, would most likely not follow suit because they rely much more heavily on energy from Russia.
"A united response to Putin's aggression has been my overriding focus to keep all of NATO and all of the E.U. and our allies totally united," Mr. Biden said. "We're moving forward with this ban understanding that many of our European allies and partners may not be in a position to join us."
Already, concern about disruptions in the flow of oil around the world has pushed up the price of Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil. On Tuesday morning, Brent crude hit $130 a barrel. It has been as high as $139 a barrel, up 26 percent over the past week.
In his remarks, Mr. Biden sought to blunt the attacks from Republicans, who have already accused the administration of pursuing environmental policies - such as blocking drilling on some public lands - that have made the situation worse. Some Republicans have urged the president to allow more drilling as a way of replacing the oil that has been coming from Russia.
Mr. Biden said that oil companies in the United States already have permission to drill in areas that they have not yet tapped.
"They have 9,000 permits to drill now," he said. "They could be drilling right now, yesterday, last week, last year. They have 9,000 to drill onshore that are already approved. So let me be clear - let me be clear. They are not using them for production now. That's their decision. These are the facts."
Many Republicans and Democrats in Congress have pushed for a ban on Russian energy. But the White House is bracing for criticism from Republicans as the price of gas and other energy rises over the coming weeks.
"This crisis is a stark reminder: To protect our economy over the long term, we need to become energy independent," he said, adding: "It should motivate us to accelerate the transition to clean energy."
#123
Three years ago, Montargis, a provincial town 75 miles from Paris, became a center of the Yellow Vest social uprising, which began as a protest movement over an increase in gasoline taxes. It was rooted in a class divide that exposed the resentment of many working-class French people, whose livelihoods are threatened by the clean-energy transition, against the metropolitan elites, especially in Paris, who can afford electric cars and can bicycle to work, unlike those in the countryside.
Now as residents of Montargis watch the global climate talks in Glasgow, where experts and officials are warning that immediate action must be taken in the face of a looming environmental catastrophe, the economic and political disconnect that nearly tore apart France three years ago remains just below the surface.
If the theme of COP26 is how time is running out to save the planet, the immediate concern in Montargis is how money is running out before the end of the month.
Household gas prices are up 12.6 percent in the past month alone, partly the result of shortages linked to the coronavirus. Electric cars seem fancifully expensive to people encouraged not so long ago to buy fuel-efficient diesel automobiles. A wind turbine that will slash property values is not what a retired couple wants just down the road.
"If Parisians love wind turbines so much, why not rip up the Bois de Vincennes and make an attraction of them?" asked Magali Cannault, who lives near Montargis, alluding to the vast park to the east of Paris.
For President Emmanuel Macron, facing an election in April, the transition to clean energy has become a delicate subject. He has portrayed himself as a green warrior, albeit a pragmatic one, but knows that any return to the barricades of the Yellow Vests would be disastrous for his election prospects.
Talk of a clean energy revolution feeds into a much broader sense of alienation felt by those in the outlying areas that France calls its "periphery." Jean-Pierre Door, a conservative lawmaker with a lot of angry constituents, said: "We want to go too fast. People are being pushed to the limit."
#124
India announced on Monday that it would significantly expand renewable energy sources in its total energy mix and called on the rich world to pony up $1 trillion to help developing countries make the energy transition.
The Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, also said his country would aim to be "net-zero" by 2070, but far more significant were the more immediate goals that he announced.
In his remarks to the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, Mr. Modi said India would aim to build 500 gigawatts of renewable energy and ensure that half of its energy mix comes from sources other than fossil fuels by 2030. That means coal, which provides the bulk of India's electricity, would remain a large part of its energy mix in the coming decade. India is one of the world's largest consumers of coal.
India is among the few big economies that have not submitted an updated Nationally Determined Contribution, as the Paris Agreement stipulates.
Mr. Modi said nothing about when his country's emissions would peak, let alone decline.
India, an emerging economy, has almost 1.4 billion people, a huge share of them young and working-age. It accounts for almost 18 percent of the world's population but only 6 percent of global emissions currently, and a negligible share of the cumulative greenhouse gases emitted in the past that are already warming the atmosphere.
Mr. Modi said the carbon intensity of India's economy, which refers to how much carbon dioxide emissions are produced relative to the country's gross domestic product, would decline by 45 percent by 2030.
O.P. Agarwal, the head of the India office of World Resources Institute, a research and advocacy group, said focusing on the expansion of renewable energy by 2030 was "a strategic and achievable ambition."
India has been under scrutiny for when it might announce a net-zero target. Mr. Modi said 2070, which is 10 years later than China's promise and 20 years later than promises made by the United States and Europe.
India has been vocal in pressing for money from industrialized countries to help developing economies make the energy transition, and Mr. Modi upped the ante on Monday. "India expects developed countries to make $1 trillion in climate finance available as soon as possible," he said.

A promised $100 billion in climate aid has not yet been delivered. According to a recent analysis by Carbon Brief, India is by far the largest recipient of climate finance.
#125
MONTPELLIER, France - Yannick Jadot, the candidate for the French Green Party in April's presidential elections, walked through a small cheering crowd to a podium topped with banners featuring his face, as speakers blasted a version of "What a Wonderful World" by the punk rock singer Joey Ramone. The candidate bobbed his head to the rhythm.
The event on a recent afternoon in the sun-soaked central square of Montpellier, a large city on France's Mediterranean coast, had all of the trappings of a dynamic and enthusiastic campaign. "Environmentalism is all about fun!" said a speaker introducing Mr. Jadot.
But with less than 30 days to go before the first round of the French presidential elections, the Green Party's campaign has so far failed to generate much excitement among the public. For weeks, Mr. Jadot has been stuck around 5 percent in the polls, about a third of the share of the top three right-wing contenders and one-sixth of the support for President Emmanuel Macron.
The Greens' disarray comes despite the increasing prominence of environmental concerns in France in recent years, marked by a series of climate marches and lawsuits, as well as by sweeping climate change legislation and a wave of environmental protests that have engulfed universities and cafe terraces.
Mr. Jadot said in an interview that "the French are not yet invested in the election campaign," as other more dramatic issues like the pandemic and the war in Ukraine are consuming much of their attention. He added that he remained "confident" that voters would soon focus on environmental issues.
But so far, the run-up to the election has been dominated by issues like security, immigration and national identity, reflecting France's recent shift to the right. By comparison, climate issues have largely been ignored, accounting for 2.5 percent of media coverage of the election in the past four weeks, according to a study released by several environmental groups.
The problem, analysts say, is that the French Greens have failed to bring in new ideas and create a clear, coherent platform that goes beyond their core issues. They also point to the party's struggle to be seen as a credible governmental force, capable of dealing with issues like diplomacy and defense, as is the case in Germany, where the Greens are now part of a three-party government coalition.
In a recent essay, Bruno Latour, a French anthropologist and philosopher, and Nikolaj Schultz, a Danish sociologist, said environmental parties had failed to come up with inspiring narratives conveying hope for a better world.
"For now, environmental politics is succeeding in panicking minds and making them yawn with boredom," they wrote.
Hoping to shake off this negative image, Mr. Jadot recently embarked on a tour of France that will bring him to some 15 cities by early April. All of the campaign stops have been designed to create connections with voters, with Mr. Jadot addressing them from a small octagonal podium.
Mr. Jadot said he wanted to solve "both sides of the equation" by convincing voters that it is time for real climate action and that doing so can also bring about a better lifestyle, or what he called "a new kind of enthusiasm."
"Taking action for the climate means economic innovation, eating well thanks to sustainable and small-scale farming," he said. "Basically, it's about regaining control of one's life."
In Montpellier, where some 500 people had gathered, Mr. Jadot's speech was filled with concrete proposals, including an $11 billion "Marshall Plan" for home insulation to cut energy consumption in half. He also plans to ban the use of dangerous pesticides and to create a new wealth tax that reflects the environmental impact of some investments.
"On the substance, these are very relevant proposals," said Daphné Destevian, 50, a project manager for an offshore renewable energy institute.
But when it came to the candidate's approach, Ms. Destevian was unmoved. "He yells too much," she said. "I find it a bit aggressive."
Standing on a podium that resembled a boxing ring, Mr. Jadot struck a combative tone, castigating the government for signing free-trade agreements, attacking the French energy giant TotalEnergies and likening Mr. Macron's pro-nuclear measures to far-right or authoritarian government policies.
Jérémie Peltier, an opinion expert at the Foundation Jean-Jaurès research institute, said this tone could prove detrimental to the Greens. "When you listen to Yannick Jadot," he said, "you feel like you're constantly being told off."
Mr. Jadot's supporters in Montpellier were well aware of the need to convey more optimism, like the positivity that radiated from the youth climate protests in 2019.
José Bové, a longtime Green and anti-globalization activist, said "the battle we have to win" is to prove that environmentalism "is a joyful project, one that makes people feel good."
Marie-Noël De Visscher, 70, a former researcher in agronomy, said that instead of "making people feel guilty," the Greens had to show that "we can do great things and that taking the train is fun."
That challenge has proved particularly acute on the economic front, with the Greens struggling to reconcile the fight against climate change with combating economic insecurity. Mr. Jadot is performing poorly with working-class voters, who fear the impact of the transition to clean energy on their livelihoods.
Mr. Schultz, the sociologist, said the Greens had focused "too much on negative narratives, on punitive narratives" - for example, by promoting ideas like limiting the growth of the economy through restrictions on food and energy consumption.
Standing back from the crowd, Bruno Cécillon, a longtime Green supporter, acknowledged that "people are worried" because "they won't be able to live as peacefully as they used to, to take their car, turn on the heat, put on the air conditioning without second thoughts."
Although the French Greens have gained credentials at the local level - they now control some of France's largest cities, including Lyon and Bordeaux, administering the lives of over two million French people - they are still a work in progress at the national level.
Daniel Boy, a political scientist at Science-Po university in Paris, said the Greens were not deemed credible on issues that are the prerogative of a president, such as security or international relations. "Can we imagine an ecologist talking to Putin?" he said, citing a concern of voters.
By contrast, Mr. Boy added, the Greens in Germany are seen as a more competent and pragmatic political party, one that is capable of forging coalition agreements with centrist forces and entering the debate on non-environmental issues. Annalena Baerbock, the candidate of the German Greens in last year's national elections, today serves as the country's minister of foreign affairs.
Mr. Jadot said he is ready to lead France. "I want to govern this country," he said. "I want to be responsible."
But in Montpellier, his supporters already seemed more doubtful.
Mr. Cécillon said he would vote for Mr. Jadot "not to get him elected - I don't think he'll be elected - but because what I'm interested in is to enable this ecological thinking to carry weight."
"A society doesn't change like that overnight," he said. "It takes time, it's slow."
#126
BERLIN - For decades, Germany has been a steadfast consumer of Russian natural gas, a relationship that has seemingly grown closer over the years, surviving Cold War-era tensions, the breakup of the former Soviet Union and even European sanctions against Moscow over its annexation of Crimea. Until this winter.
Since November, the amount of natural gas arriving in Germany from Russia has plunged, driving prices through the roof and draining reserves. These are changes that Gazprom, Russia's state-controlled energy behemoth, has been regularly pointing out.
"As much as 85 percent of the gas injected in Europe's underground gas storage facilities last summer is already withdrawn," Gazprom said on Twitter a couple of weeks ago, adding that "facilities in Germany and France are already two-thirds empty."
With tensions between the West and Russia over Ukraine - a key transit country for Russian gas - showing few signs of easing, Germany's new minister for the economy and climate change, Robert Habeck, has begun to raise an issue that was unthinkable just a year or two ago: looking beyond Russia for the country's natural gas needs.
"The geopolitical situation forces us to create other import opportunities and diversify supply," Mr. Habeck, who is a member of the environmentalist Greens, said last week. "We need to act here and secure ourselves better. If we don't, we will become a pawn in the game."

The Marshal Vasilevskiyl, a floating storage and regasification unit owned by Gazprom, anchored in the Baltic Sea near Kaliningrad, Russia, last week.Credit...Vitaly Nevar/Reuters
Now the government is reviving plans for building a terminal for liquefied natural gas, or L.N.G., on Germany's northern coast. That proposal, long pushed by Washington, was previously shelved as being too costly. But in recent months, liquefied natural gas, arriving via giant tankers from the United States, Qatar and other locations, has become a vital source of fuel for Europe as supplies piped in from Russia have dwindled.
Europe has more than two dozen L.N.G. terminals, including ones in Poland, the Netherlands and Belgium, but the one proposed for Germany's coast would be the country's first.
The government is also considering rules that would require energy companies to maintain a base level of natural gas in reserve. Last week, the amount of natural gas in the country's storage tanks had dropped to 35 to 36 percent, the government said, below the level considered necessary at the start of February to survive a week of bitter cold. Roughly a quarter of all Germany's natural gas capacity is held in facilities owned by Gazprom, including the country's largest underground tank.
These moves are in addition to efforts to build more renewable sources of power, such as expanding wind and solar capacities.
Natural gas is an increasingly critical source of energy for Germany. Last year it accounted for nearly 27 percent of the energy consumed, according to government figures, an increase from 2020 that is expected to continue when the country shutters its last three nuclear power plants in December and works to phase out coal-burning power plants by 2030. And two-thirds of the gas Germany burned last year came from Russia.
For years, Germany's Western and European partners - especially the United States, Poland and the Baltic countries - have expressed concern over Germany's reliance on Russia for natural gas. Construction of a pipeline called Nord Stream 2 was completed last year and further outraged Germany's partners. The pipeline runs 746 miles under the Baltic Sea from the Russian coast near St. Petersburg to northeastern Germany.
German allies' repeated warnings that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia could use the link as a way to exert energy blackmail over Europe fell on deaf ears in Berlin, where, as recently as December, Chancellor Olaf Scholz referred to the $11 billion pipeline as "a private-sector project."
Even as Germany tries to become more independent of Russia, Nord Stream 2 is a continuing reminder of a tight relationship.
The undersea pipeline is owned by a subsidiary of Gazprom, but it was financed with money from European energy companies. Two German energy companies, Uniper and Wintershall DEA, along with Austria's OMV, Energie from France and Shell, put up a total of 950 million euros (about $1.08 billion) in 2017, providing half the cost of construction.
The pipeline has yet to begin operating, as it awaits approval from a German regulator that is not expected before the second half of this year. But last week, President Biden told reporters in a news conference with Mr. Scholz that if Russia invaded Ukraine, "then there will be no longer a Nord Stream 2," adding: "We will bring an end to it."
Standing nearby, Mr. Scholz noticeably didn't match those words. Although he no longer insists the pipeline is purely an economic undertaking, he has not yet been as forthcoming about preventing it from operating. The financial implications of such a move may be part of his reasoning.
If the German government prevents the pipeline from ever going into operation, it could potentially be liable for damages owed to the companies involved, including claims for the years that it should have been in operation.
Those costs could run as high as €40 billion, according to estimates worked out by Jonathan Stern, a distinguished research fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies.
"This is only if it is assumed that the pipeline never operates," he said in an email, stressing that the calculation was based on a lot of assumptions. "It could be claimed that it is just 'delayed,' i.e. that it could start up in a few years if 'circumstances change.'"
The ties binding Germany to Russian gas are more than financial. Gerhard Schröder, who preceded Angela Merkel as chancellor from 1998 to 2005, is known for his cordial ties with Mr. Putin. He is the chairman of Rosneft, the Russian state oil firm, and chairman of Nord Stream, the subsidiary of Gazprom that owns the pipeline, and has been nominated to join the board of Gazprom.
Recently, the chief executive of a company that gave Nord Stream 2 financial backing, Alfred Stern of OMV, warned against singling out the pipeline when gas levels in Europe were low and prices high.
"I believe that neither Nord Stream 2 nor any other distribution channels need to be seen in isolation," Mr. Stern said. "We should be aware of the fact that we need gas in Europe - there is a shortage of gas, production levels are going down, and demand now and in the near future will remain high."
And the market for liquefied natural gas may tighten. Concern is growing in the United States that the push to export natural gas is disrupting the domestic market, driving up prices for Americans who rely on it to heat their homes.
"There has been a lot of talk about energy transformation, diversification away from Russia, but realizing we still depend very much on natural gas and Russia," said Kirsten Westphal, executive director of the H2 Global Foundation and a member of the German Hydrogen Council.
The ultimate solution to this problem, she said, is to focus much more resources on developing clean replacements for natural gas, including hydrogen, which many hope could eventually replace the fossil fuel in existing pipelines and power plants.
"Now is the time for the government to really push for green and clean gases and to quickly transition to green and climate-neutral hydrogen and make the infrastructure hydrogen-ready," she said.
While that remains the German government's goal, leaders in the interim have been forced to acknowledge the reality of their reliance on natural gas from Russia and the dangers that dependence poses to Europe's largest economy.
"Germany is still highly dependent on imports of fossil fuels," Mr. Habeck told lawmakers last month, acknowledging that the expansion of renewables would not happen overnight or without resistance from some corners. "Strategically, it is the right thing to do, not only to protect the climate but also to increase the resilience of the German economy."
#127
NAXOS, Greece - On the windswept western tip of one of Greece's largest islands, an unassuming stone building above the Aegean Sea has become an unlikely outpost in the country's fight against climate change.
Camouflaged inside is a new power station linked to a 180-mile undersea electricity cable that ties Naxos to a chain of other breezy vacation playgrounds, allowing the islands to ditch their oil-burning generators for renewable power from Greece's abundant wind and sun.
Nearby islands have become zero-carbon laboratories for companies like Volkswagen to fan out electric cars and wire communities for clean energy. Changes are underway on the mainland, too, where dirty lignite coal mines that powered Greece for decades are being fast-tracked for closure.
The push for a transition to clean energy would seem a herculean task for Greece, a country of around 10 million that recently emerged from a devastating decade-long debt crisis and still leans heavily on fossil fuels for power.
Greece is betting on a carbon-free future to reshape its economic destiny. What's fascinating is that small Greek islands are being used for innovative experiments to drive the clean power shift.
But as the European Union seeks to be a global leader in the race to stop climate change, Greece is betting that turning toward a carbon-free future can reshape its economic destiny.
"The growth of the economy is inextricably tied to making ourselves as energy independent as we can," said Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a conservative who took office in 2019 vowing to rebuild Greece, in part based on an environmental agenda.
"Greece can be a paradigm of how energy transition and climate action can create jobs and sustainable growth," he said in an interview.
Whether Greece succeeds matters. As wealthier European countries like Norway and Denmark make strides re-engineering their economies to be more climate friendly, Greece offers a test case of whether - and how effectively - Europe's poorer states can turn away from fossil fuels while providing buffers for those threatened by the change.
#128
MONTARGIS, France - Just 75 miles separate this provincial town from Paris, but if the capital is all about a renewable energy revolution, the talk here is of how it costs people way too much.
"We want to go too fast," said Jean-Pierre Door, a conservative lawmaker with a lot of angry constituents. "People are being pushed to the limit."
Three years ago, Montargis became a center of the Yellow Vest social uprising, an angry protest movement over an increase in gasoline taxes that was sustained, sometimes violently, for more than year by a much broader sense of alienation felt by those in the outlying areas that France calls its "periphery."
The uprising was rooted in a class divide that exposed the resentment of many working-class people, whose livelihoods are threatened by the clean-energy transition, against the metropolitan elites, especially in Paris, who can afford electric cars and can bicycle to work, unlike those in the countryside.
Now as Mr. Door and others watch the global climate talks underway in Glasgow, where experts and officials are warning that immediate action must be taken in the face of a looming environmental catastrophe, the economic and political disconnect that nearly tore apart France three years ago remains just below the surface.
There are plenty of people in the "periphery" who understand the need to transition to clean energy and are already trying to do their part. But if the theme of COP26, as the Glasgow summit is known, is how time is running out to save the planet, the immediate concern here is how money is running out before the end of the month.
Household gas prices are up 12.6 percent in the past month alone, partly the result of shortages linked to the coronavirus. Electric cars seem fancifully expensive to people encouraged not so long ago to buy fuel-efficient diesel automobiles. A wind turbine that will slash property values is not what a retired couple wants just down the road.
"If Parisians love wind turbines so much, why not rip up the Bois de Vincennes and make an attraction of them?" asked Magali Cannault, who lives near Montargis, alluding to the vast park to the east of Paris.
For President Emmanuel Macron, facing an election in April, the transition to clean energy has become a delicate subject. He has portrayed himself as a green warrior, albeit a pragmatic one, but knows that any return to the barricades of the Yellow Vests would be disastrous for his election prospects.
Each morning, at her farm a few miles from town, Ms. Cannault gazes from her doorstep at a 390-foot mast built recently to gauge wind levels for proposed turbines. "Nobody ever consulted us on this."
The only sounds as she spoke on a misty, damp morning were the honking of geese and the crowing of roosters. Claude Madec-Cleï, the mayor of the nearby village of Griselles, nodded. "We are not considered," he said. "President Macron is courting the Greens."
In fact, with the election looming, Mr. Macron is courting just about everyone and is desperate to avoid a return of the Yellow Vests.
The government has frozen household gas prices. An "energy check" worth $115 will be sent next month to some six million people judged most in need. An "inflation indemnity" for the same amount also will be sent to about 38 million people earning less than $2,310 a month. Gasoline inflation has been a main driver of these measures.
Sophie Tissier, who has organized more than a hundred Yellow Vest demonstrations, said a heavy police response made it "very hard to restart the movement," despite what she called "a grave social crisis and rampant anger." She added that inequalities were so extreme in France that "it prevents us making an ecological transition."
The president touts the realism of his energy proposals. These combine the development of new small-reactor nuclear power with the embrace of wind power and other renewables.
To his left, the Green movement wants nuclear power, which accounts for 67.1 percent of France's electricity needs, phased out, an adjustment so enormous that it is derided by conservatives as heralding "a return to the candlelight era."
To Mr. Macron's right, Marine Le Pen favors the dismantling of the country's more than 9,000 wind turbines, which account for 7.9 percent of France's electricity production.
In the middle, millions of French people, buffeted between concern for the planet and their immediate needs, struggle to adjust.
Christine Gobet drives her small diesel car about 90 miles a day from the Montargis area to her job at an Amazon warehouse on the outskirts of Orléans, where she prepares packages and earns about $1,600 a month.
Sitting at the wheel outside a garage where her diesel engine had just been replaced at a cost of about $3,000, she mocked the notion of switching to an electric car.
"For people like me, electric is just out of the question," she said. "Everything's going up, there's even talk of more expensive baguettes! We were pushed to diesel, told it was less polluting. Now we are told the opposite."
At the start of the Yellow Vest movement, she joined demonstrations in Montargis. It was not just financial pressure that pushed her. It was a sense that "we are not listened to, that it's those elites up on high who decide and we just suffer the consequences."
She dropped out of the movement when it became violent. At a traffic circle on the edge of Montargis, known as the "peanut roundabout" because of its shape, traffic was blocked for two months, and stores ran out of stock.
Today, she feels that little has changed. In Paris, she said, "they have everything." Anne Hidalgo, the Paris mayor and a socialist candidate for the presidency, wants "no more cars in the city and has no time for people from the provinces who go there to work."
For working-class people like Ms. Gobet, who was mentioned in a recent 100-part series called "Fragments of France" in the newspaper Le Monde, calls in Glasgow to stop using fossil fuels and close nuclear power stations appear wildly remote from their daily lives.
At 58, she illustrates a generational chasm. The world's youth led by Greta Thunberg is on one side, convinced that no priority can be more urgent than saving the planet. On the other are older people who, as Mr. Door put it, "don't want the last 20 years of their lives ruined by environmental measures that drive energy prices up and the value of the house they put their money in down."
The area around Montargis has attracted many retirees who want to be close to Paris without paying Paris prices, as well as many immigrants who live on the outskirts of town.
Gilles Fauvin, a taxi driver with a diesel Peugeot, was at the same garage as Ms. Gobet. He said most of his business comes from taking clients with medical needs to hospitals in Orléans and Paris. The combination of plans to ban diesel cars from the capital by 2024 and pressure to switch to expensive electric cars could ruin him. "Diesel works for me," he said.
But of course, diesel cars produce several pollutants. The question for Yoann Fauvin, the owner of the garage and the taxi driver's cousin, is whether electric cars are really better.
"You have to mine the metals for the batteries in China or Chile, you have to transport them with all the carbon costs of that, you have to recycle the batteries," he said.
In front of him, a classic green 1977 Citroen 2CV was being reconditioned and a diesel Citroen DS4 repaired. "This business lives from diesel," he said. "Around here energy transformation is laughed at. It's wealthy people who move to electric cars, the people who don't understand what goes on around here."
Magalie Pasquier, a homemaker who heads a local association against wind power called Aire 45, said her opposition to about 75 new turbines planned for the area has nothing to do with dismissing environmental concerns.
She recycles. She is careful about traveling. She composts. She wears two sweaters rather than turn up the heat. She finds the environmental idealism of the young inspiring. But the world, she believes, has put the cart before the horse.
"Why destroy a landscape that attracts people to this area when the real energy issue is overconsumption?" she asked. "Local people are not consulted, and even mayors are powerless to stop these ugly turbines."
A friend, Philippe Jacob, a professor of management and marketing also involved in the movement against the turbines, said the Yellow Vest movement had stemmed from rising gasoline prices, falling purchasing power, deteriorating public services, and widespread dissatisfaction with top-down decision making.
"The same is true today, and the situation is very dangerous," he said. "People have invested their life savings here, and nobody listens when they say planned turbines and biogas plants will mean the region is ruined."
#129
For years at global climate talks, developing countries have said that they need more financial help from wealthy nations to speed up their shift away from fossil fuels.
Now the world is about to get a major test of how that might work in practice.
At the Glasgow climate summit on Tuesday, South Africa announced that it had secured commitments for $8.5 billion in financing over the next five years from Britain, France, Germany, the United States and European Union to help install more clean energy, accelerate the country's transition away from coal power and cushion the blow for workers who may be affected by the shift.
"This is a big deal," said Jesse Burton, an energy policy researcher and senior associate at the University of Cape Town and E3G, a research group that focuses on climate change. "It's a major test of whether wealthy nations can help developing countries embark on a just transition away from coal."
South Africa, the world's 15th-largest emitter, relies overwhelmingly on coal, which supplies 87 percent of the nation's electricity. While the country has pledged to reduce its overall carbon dioxide emissions between now and 2030 as part of global efforts to tackle climate change, it faces enormous obstacles in doing so.
South Africa's state-owned utility, Eskom, is drowning in more than $27 billion in debt, in part because of investments in coal plants, and the utility has struggled to supply reliable power, often resorting to rolling blackouts to meet demand.
For South Africa to meet its most ambitious climate goals by 2030, analysts have said, the country will most likely need to speed up the retirement of existing coal plants while building large amounts of renewable energy generation and transmission lines to meet growing demand.
Making the task even tougher, the country's fragile economy remains dependent on coal jobs, with more than 120,000 people working at power plants and mines. Past discussions over when and how to shift away from coal have been politically contentious.
President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa said on Tuesday that the $8.5 billion in loans and grants pledged by wealthy countries could help the country finesse that transition by accelerating investment in renewable energy while ensuring that Eskom can gain access to resources to repurpose old coal stations slated for retirement over the next 15 years.
The country would also explore initiatives to create new jobs for former coal miners.
"It is proof that we can take ambitious climate action while increasing our energy security, creating jobs and harnessing new opportunities for investment, with support from developed economies," Mr. Ramaphosa said.
Still, plenty of questions remain about how the partnership will work in practice. Details are still forthcoming about how much new clean energy will be built, and how much coal will be phased out.
There are also questions, analysts said, about whether donor countries will follow through on their commitments, whether there will be transparency in how the funds are used and whether they will benefit local communities.
#130
LONDON - Two weeks before a global summit on climate change that some fear is already foundering, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain on Tuesday tried to recapture momentum by announcing a host of measures to bolster his own country's push toward carbon neutrality.
The British government published documents outlining plans for a big expansion of electric vehicles, more offshore wind power and greater use of hydrogen.
But Mr. Johnson's efforts to make Britain a pacesetter on climate change could face economic and political headwinds at home. And there is little evidence that it will galvanize global action at a time when the leaders of several of the world's largest carbon emitters are expected to stay away from the two-week conference in Glasgow.
President Xi Jinping of China, the world's most populous nation, is not expected to attend the event, called Cop26, in person, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India has yet to decide whether he will come. On Wednesday the Kremlin said that Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, would not attend, declining to provide a reason.
The spotty guest list even drew criticism from Queen Elizabeth, who never openly comments on political issues but who was caught on camera last week doing so at the opening of the Welsh Parliament. "I still don't know who's coming," she said, appearing to express impatience with the leaders by adding: "they talk, but they don't do."
There is more than royal protocol at stake because, without ambitious offers by the United States and China, the Glasgow conference could fizzle, climate change experts said. After months of projecting confidence, even Mr. Johnson himself has played down hopes of a big breakthrough.
"Cop was always going to be extremely tough," he said on Monday in an interview with Bloomberg News. "We're going to need to see some real action from the participants."
While that might be a tactical move in the hope that the summit exceeds lowered expectations, Mr. Johnson faces a significant challenge, analysts say.
Tom Burke, chairman of E3G, an environmental think tank and a former government adviser, said Mr. Johnson needs to persuade leaders who attend to give a strong signal to their negotiators to strike an ambitious agreement.
"That's the test of the prime minister: can he get his peers to give the high ambition signals he is asking for; he's not going into this with a lot of capital," said Mr. Burke, referring to cuts in Britain's international development aid and the country's adversarial post-Brexit relationship with the European Union.
"Britain has a legitimate claim to have led the world over climate change, the question is whether the prime minister has enough guns with his peers," he added.
President Biden plans to travel to Glasgow, but his climate agenda is at risk of being radically scaled back in the budget wrangling on Capitol Hill. Sen. Joe Manchin III, the West Virginia Democrat whose vote is critical to the passage of legislation, has opposed the White House's signature clean-electricity initiative, which would replace coal- and gas-fired power plants with wind, nuclear, and solar energy.
White House officials are now rewriting the legislation with other measures that could cut carbon emissions. But with less than two weeks before the conference begins, Mr. Biden is likely to arrive in Glasgow without something concrete to offer.
Britain sees itself as a world leader in climate change and has promised to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. But experts have been waiting for details on how that target can be achieved, something the government tried to redress on Tuesday with several long-awaited documents.
They included a pledge to draw in 90 billion pounds, or about $124 billion, of private investment for a green energy transition that would support 440,000 jobs by 2030. That would help Britain to meet its target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions to a level 68 percent below 1990 levels by 2030, then delivering a "decarbonized economy" by 2050.
Britain wants to end its reliance on fossil fuel electricity by 2035 if possible and, alongside wind and other renewable energy, the government plans to secure financing for at least one new nuclear plant by 2024.
Britons will be offered a subsidy to upgrade heating systems and shift from gas to more expensive heat pumps and there will be more cash for tree planting.
Environmental groups said the plans did not go far enough. "Extra cash for tree planting and progress on electric vehicles doesn't make up for the lack of concrete plans to deliver renewables at scale, extra investment in public transport, or a firm commitment to end new oil and gas licenses," said Rebecca Newsom, head of UK politics at Greenpeace.
And, while Mr. Johnson prepares for Glasgow, members of the royal family - as well as the queen - have been vocal in their commitment to combating climate change. Prince William, the queen's grandson, handed out his Earth Shot prizes for innovative projects in climate and the environment, while taking a veiled shot at billionaires like Jeff Bezos and Richard Branson, who have recently gone on privately financed spaceflights.
"We need some of the world's greatest brains and minds fixed on trying to repair this planet, not trying to find the next place to go and live," William said in an interview with the BBC.
His father, Prince Charles, a longtime environmental activist, told another interviewer that his car, a specially modified Aston Martin, runs on "surplus English white wine and whey from the cheese process." He was referring to a bioethanol fuel that is manufactured from byproducts of wine and cheese fermentation.
#131
SYDNEY, Australia - At a time when climate change and those who fight it demand that coal be treated like tobacco, as a danger everywhere it is burned, Australia is increasingly seen as the guy at the end of the bar selling cheap cigarettes and promising to bring more tomorrow.
Along with koalas, kangaroos and beaches, the country - the world's third-largest exporter of fossil fuels - is becoming known for refusing to clean up its act.
With just days to go before a major U.N. climate conference in Scotland, Australia is one of the last holdouts among developed nations in committing to net zero emissions by 2050, and it has refused to strengthen its 2030 target or make plans for transitioning away from its deep investment in fossil fuel production.
The country's prime minister, Scott Morrison, only recently agreed to attend the climate summit after criticism from Queen Elizabeth II and a crowd-funded billboard in Times Square that mocked his reluctance to address climate change, calling him "Coal-o-phile Dundee."
"The government and the opposition are captured by the coal and gas industries," said Adam Bandt, the leader of the Australian Greens and a member of Parliament from Melbourne. "It's a version of a petro-state."
Australia's inertia points to a pressing challenge for the world: how to get places that profit from a dangerous product to transition before it becomes too late. With the threat of even more damaging storms and fires looming if temperatures keep rising, a combine-and-conquer approach is required - fossil fuel users and producers both need to kick the habit.
The kings of carbon are not in a rush. A U.N. report released on Wednesday found that coal, oil and gas production will keep growing at least until 2040, reaching levels more than double what is needed to prevent a catastrophic rise in global temperatures.
Australia is a major contributor to the problem. In energy terms, the continent is essentially a bigger version of West Virginia: Coal is still king, natural gas is celebrated and the conservative government has a lot in common with Senator Joe Manchin III, who has blocked President Biden's sweeping plan to shift the country toward renewable energy.

Progress seems to be glacial in many places, but the momentum in Australia is not just slow. The country's leaders are still actively heading in the wrong direction. The Great Barrier Reef may be bleaching from the heat and acidity caused by climate change; towns and families burned out by the Black Summer fires of 2019 and 2020 have yet to fully recover. Yet Australia's leaders continue to invest in what they know, defying their own constituents and increasingly the world.
American, British and U.N. officials, along with Australia's vulnerable Pacific island neighbors, have repeatedly given the same message to the Australian government: More must be done.
Expanding What Should be Curtailed
In May, the International Energy Agency released a detailed overview of what it would take to cut carbon dioxide emissions to net zero by 2050 and keep the average global temperature from increasing by 1.5 degrees Celsius over preindustrial levels - the threshold beyond which the Earth faces irreversible damage.
Near the top of the list: end investment in new sources of fossil fuels.
Australia's response? Yeah, nah.
The federal government still revels in Australia's role as the world's largest coal exporter. A report from the Department of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources last month used a medal icon in denoting the country status as the world's coal leader, expected to ship out 439 million tons this year, up from 400 million tons last year.
In the last month alone, three new coal mining projects have been approved. In New South Wales, a production hub for the thermal coal burned in power plants - some of the biggest contributors to global emissions - proposals for 20 new coal mines are under review. And that does not include a giant project in the state of Queensland, where the Indian industrial giant Adani is trying to build the largest coal mine in the world.
Nor does it include Australia's expansion of natural gas. The government plans to open at least five new gas fields, including the giant Beetaloo Basin project in the Northern Territory, which has been granted subsidies of around $170 million. The tax breaks given to the fossil fuel industry last year alone were worth more than what Australia spends on its army - and the federal resources minister, Keith Pitt, said this month that the government should spend even more to protect coal and gas.
Critics argue that it's all the product of a warped political and media culture that has spent decades doing the industry's bidding while deceiving the public, exaggerating coal employment and understating the need to reverse course. Federal elections are often won or lost in the coal areas of Queensland, and with another contest due next year, the coalition government's junior partner, the National Party, which represents regional areas, is playing a familiar hand.
"For at least 10 years, they've been telling people that climate change is rubbish, that it doesn't exist, that we can continue digging up and burning coal forever and a day," said Zali Steggall, an independent member of Parliament who unseated a former prime minister, Tony Abbott, in 2019 with a campaign focused on climate. "They have a difficult job now in turning around to those communities and saying we were wrong or misleading you and we need to do this."
Richie Merzian, the climate and energy director at the Australia Institute, a progressive research organization, said the task was made more difficult by "the very strong connection between the fossil fuel lobby and Australia's government."
To illustrate the point, he cited Brendan Pearson. As the chief executive of Australia's Minerals Council, Mr. Pearson oversaw a series of ads in 2015 declaring that "coal is amazing." He also famously supplied Mr. Morrison with a lump of coal that he held up in Parliament two years later, declaring: "This is coal. Don't be afraid."
Mr. Pearson is now Australia's ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Mr. Morrison appointed him last month.
The Backlash Gathers Strength
Until the devastating bush fires of two years ago, Australians might not have blinked at their government's continued support for fossil fuels. The country is responsible for less than 2 percent of the world's carbon dioxide emissions.
But the Australian public has become increasingly concerned. Polls show that a strong majority of Australians want climate action even if the costs are significant, and want the government to stop approving new coal mines.
"It's just so frustrating," said Dan Illic, a comedian and podcast host who raised more than $100,000 for the Times Square billboard. "It's like all of Australia can see what needs to happen except the people who are getting fossil fuel donations."
There is some momentum at the local level. Several states, including New South Wales, have committed to net zero by 2050 and more immediate emission reductions that go beyond the 26 to 28 percent cut that Australia promised with the Paris climate agreement.
Thanks also to changes in farming practices and solar panels on people's homes, Australia's emissions are now projected to fall by around 34 percent by the end of this decade compared to 2005 levels. But that decline is still weak by international standards, with the United States promising cuts of 50 to 52 percent by 2030, Britain agreeing to a 78 percent decline by 2035, and Japan pledging a reduction of 46 percent by 2030.
More galling for many as they watch their leaders waffle and argue, Australia has enormous potential to lead the energy transition, with some of the best wind and solar resources in the world, not to mention a mining industry rich in nickel, lithium and other materials that go into batteries and other green technologies.
Even Greg Williamson, the mayor of Mackay, a city in north Queensland where coal ships can be seen off the coast, said Mr. Morrison's coalition was stuck in "old thinking" - maintaining the addiction to fossil fuels while failing to seize new opportunities.
"We are all worried about the future, but we need leadership," he said. "We need solutions."
#132
BERLIN - In the middle of Germany's election campaign, almost 200 people died in extreme floods in Germany. Four months later, the fight against climate change has become the central theme of the new post-Merkel government.
Most roofs will be fitted with solar panels and more than 1,000 windmills will be built, almost doubling the share of renewable sources for electricity to 80 percent by 2030. The last coal mine will close the same year, eight years earlier than planned. And 15 million electric cars will roam the country's fabled Autobahn.
At least that is the ambition of what Olaf Scholz, the designated next chancellor, says will be the "biggest industrial modernization of Germany in more than 100 years." It was part of the governing plan he and his coalition partners announced on Wednesday.
Who will pay for it all is another question - and one that was hotly debated by the very different parties who have joined Mr. Scholz's Social Democrats, the progressive Greens and the pro-business Free Democrats.
The Greens campaigned to spend 50 billion euros in green investments each year for a decade to bankroll the country's transition to renewable energy - and pay for it by scrapping the country's strict balanced budget rule.
The Free Democrats agreed to join the government only on condition of not raising any taxes and upholding the country's balanced budget law, a so-called debt brake enshrined in its Constitution.
It was not by coincidence that the biggest battle in the six weeks of talks to form a coalition was who would control the finance ministry and with it the purse strings. Both Robert Habeck, co-leader of the Greens, and Christian Lindner, leader of the Free Democrats, wanted the job and fought for it until the end.
Ultimately, Mr. Lindner won, while Mr. Habeck will oversee a new super-ministry of economy and climate.
"Regarding finance: It's no secret that the positions in the coalition are far apart," Mr. Habeck of the Greens told Süddeutsche Zeitung in an interview published Thursday. "We spoke intensely about taxes, cutting subsidies and market regulation. If you ask me where I would have liked to see more, it's this area."
One of the biggest questions for climate change experts is whether the commitment to put Germany - Europe's biggest economy - on a path to carbon neutrality by 2045 is still an issue primarily pushed by the Greens or is now truly a project shared by all members of the new administration.
"Will its achievements match the ambitions, or will the parties fall back to ideological starting points?" said Lutz Weischer, who heads the Berlin-based office of Germanwatch, an environmental watchdog.
There are some hopeful signs, he said. By turning the green transition into a national project of industrial competitiveness and social justice, each of the three parties has been able to sell it to their base.
The new government has woven the commitment to put in place measures that would limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century, as stipulated by the Paris climate agreement, throughout its 177-page governing deal. There are 198 mentions of "climate" in that document, in all policy areas from culture to foreign policy.
"The climate crisis endangers our livelihood and threatens freedom, prosperity and security," the preamble of the coalition treaty states. "Reaching the climate goals of Paris is our top priority. We want to reinvent our social market economy as a social-ecological market economy."
Even Mr. Lindner, the leader of the libertarian Free Democrats, proudly called the treaty "the most ambitious climate protection program of any industrialized nation."
"If that really is the spirit of the new government, then it is a real game changer," Mr. Weischer said. "But it remains to be seen."
Germany's debt brake, which was written into the Constitution in 2009, restricts annual borrowing to 0.35 percent of the nominal gross domestic product, amounting to roughly 12 billion euros a year, a far cry from the 50 billion the Greens say is needed.
But there are signs that the new government has found some back-door solutions to borrowing.
One is to exploit the temporary suspension of the debt brake during the pandemic. As finance minister, Mr. Scholz last year suspended the spending limit, which is allowed under a national emergency, and the coalition treaty says it will not be reinstated until the end of 2022.
That gives the new government time to borrow money and put it in a fund that will continue to run even after the limit on borrowing comes back into force.
Another way to raise money is to beef up the state development bank, known as KfW, which can borrow funds that the government can then earmark for infrastructure projects and other investments - without it appearing on the federal budget.
There are also ways to tweak the formula according to how the debt brake is calculated and raise the spending limit that way, economists said.
Few expect that this creative accounting will be enough to raise the 50 billion euros per year the Greens had lobbied for, but the commitment to a significant increase in public investment was broadly applauded.
"I think this agreement signals a change," said Clemens Fuest, president of the Ifo economic institute. "A lot of transformation investments are really being pushed harder now."
Marcel Fratzscher, head of the German Institute for Economic Research, said he was impressed with the detail in the proposed measures.
"There is a wind of change in the air," Mr. Fratzscher said. "On climate, it is very ambitious, very detailed and very convincing program. Whether it's enough to make Germany compliant with the 1.5 degree target is to be seen."
Environmental organizations and climate activists were not convinced.
"This coalition agreement alone is not enough to ensure the 1.5 degree limit," the Fridays for Future youth movement said in a statement. According to Greenpeace, the program "only hints at a radical ecological breakthrough."
Mr. Habeck, the future economy and climate minister, acknowledged the difficulties ahead.
"No other country in Europe is doing what we're doing," Mr. Habeck said. "Our neighbors either hold on to coal, like Poland, or bet on nuclear energy, like France, or they're doing both and a little bit of renewable energy. We are leaving behind both old technologies."
"There will be decisions that will be difficult," he added. "I know that."
#133
GLASGOW - Scotland's leader, Nicola Sturgeon, said Wednesday that the nation must accelerate its transition away from fossil fuels but that it was imperative to do so in a way that created jobs and new opportunities in renewable energy and carbon alternatives.
"The science is telling us we're running out of time, and the planet is in serious trouble," she said, speaking on the sidelines of COP26 in Glasgow. "Against that backdrop, we have an obligation to try to raise our ambition as much as we possibly can."
But Ms. Sturgeon said the reality for Scotland now is that it depends on oil and gas not just for its energy needs but also because 100,000 people in the country have jobs dependent on fossil fuels.
Ms. Sturgeon, Scotland's top elected official, said that having grown up in the 1970s and 1980s, she was acutely aware of how the loss of heavy industry like coal and steel in Britain caused unemployment to rise. Scotland, she said, has to manage the transition away from fossil fuels carefully.
"What we need to do better in Scotland, to be candid," she said, "what we've not done well enough and we need to get better at, not least to support the just transition away from oil and gas, is to capture more of the economic benefit of renewable technology."
Many of the wind projects in Scotland are foreign investments. "We welcome them," Ms. Sturgeon said, "but we haven't yet captured enough of that benefit in our own jobs and supply chain."
Ms. Sturgeon, who was speaking at a Times event series running alongside the U.N. summit, said she viewed carbon capture and storage as an important way to deal with carbon emissions. But Scotland did not get backing from the British government to develop a carbon capture and storage facility in Aberdeenshire.
Ms. Sturgeon, who has clashed with Prime Minister Boris Johnson on major issues, including his handling of the pandemic and Brexit, argued that Scotland would be able to manage a transition away from fossil fuels better on its own, as an independent nation, than as part of Britain.
Reducing Scotland's carbon emissions is a priority, she said.
Over the summer, in a move that shocked the oil and gas industry, Ms. Sturgeon urged Britain's government to revisit licenses already granted for offshore oil fields still in the planning stages. She cited "the severity of the climate emergency we now face."
Ms. Sturgeon said she was hopeful about the ability of leaders to make substantial progress at COP26.
"Potentially, people 100 years from now will look back on this summit, I hope, and describe Glasgow as the place which really took the correct fork in the road for our planet," she said.
#134
A group of philanthropic foundations and international development banks on Wednesday announced a $10.5 billion fund to help emerging economies with growing energy needs make the switch from fossil fuels to renewable sources.
The group, known as the Global Energy Alliance, aims to draw in more donors in the coming weeks. At the moment, it has pulled in $1.5 billion from the Rockefeller Foundation, the Ikea Foundation and the Bezos Earth Fund, along with $9 billion from international development banks such as the African Development Bank and the International Finance Corporation.
The announcement, on the sidelines of the United Nations climate summit in Glasgow, comes as the Biden administration is banking on trillions of dollars in private investment to move global energy systems away from coal, oil and gas.
Raj Shah, the president of the Rockefeller Foundation, which helped set up the alliance, said that the new fund was necessary to jump-start investments in clean energy technologies that would not otherwise draw private investors that demand high rates of return.
"Accelerating climate transitions in developing countries will not happen if an immediate 20 percent return on every investment is necessary," Mr. Shah said, adding that such an initiative would require public, philanthropic and private sectors coming together to "leverage innovative finance."
The alliance says it aims to raise $100 billion in public and private capital to expand access to clean sources of electricity for a billion people in developing countries, create 150 million jobs and avoid the carbon emissions that would have been generated by power plants that run on coal.
The money will support initiatives such as the development of mini-electricity grids in parts of rural India, help Indonesia shut down some of its oldest and most polluting coal-fired power plants, and develop a hydropower project in Sierra Leone.
#135
WASHINGTON - Tom Perriello saw it coming but could do nothing to stop it. André Kapanga too. Despite urgent emails, phone calls and personal pleas, they watched helplessly as a company backed by the Chinese government took ownership from the Americans of one of the world's largest cobalt mines.
It was 2016, and a deal had been struck by the Arizona-based mining giant Freeport-McMoRan to sell the site, located in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which now figures prominently in China's grip on the global cobalt supply. The metal has been among several essential raw materials needed for the production of electric car batteries - and is now critical to retiring the combustion engine and weaning the world off climate-changing fossil fuels.
Mr. Perriello, a top U.S. diplomat in Africa at the time, sounded alarms in the State Department. Mr. Kapanga, then the mine's Congolese general manager, all but begged the American ambassador in Congo to intercede.
"This is a mistake," Mr. Kapanga recalled warning him, suggesting the Americans were squandering generations of relationship building in Congo, the source of more than two-thirds of the world's cobalt.
Presidents starting with Dwight D. Eisenhower had sent hundreds of millions of dollars in aid, including transport planes and other military equipment, to the mineral-rich nation. Richard Nixon intervened, as did the State Department under Hillary Clinton, to sustain the relationship. And Freeport-McMoRan had invested billions of its own - before it sold the mine to a Chinese company.
Not only did the Chinese purchase of the mine, known as Tenke Fungurume, go through uninterrupted during the final months of the Obama administration, but four years later, during the twilight of the Trump presidency, so did the purchase of an even more impressive cobalt reserve that Freeport-McMoRan put on the market. The buyer was the same company, China Molybdenum.
China's pursuit of Congo's cobalt wealth is part of a disciplined playbook that has given it an enormous head start over the United States in the race to dominate the electrification of the auto industry, long a key driver of the global economy.
But an investigation by The New York Times revealed a hidden history of the cobalt acquisitions in which the United States essentially surrendered the resources to China, failing to safeguard decades of diplomatic and financial investments in Congo. The sale of the two mines, also flush with copper, highlights the shifting geography and politics of the clean energy revolution, with countries rich in cobalt, lithium and other raw materials needed for batteries suddenly playing the role of oil giants.

The loss of the mines happened under the watch of President Barack Obama, consumed with Afghanistan and the Islamic State, and President Donald J. Trump, a climate-change skeptic committed to fossil fuels and the electoral forces behind them. More broadly, it had roots in the end of the Cold War, according to previously classified documents and interviews with senior officials in the Clinton, Bush, Obama, Trump and Biden administrations.
For decades, the United States worried that the Soviet Union would gain control of Congo's copper, cobalt, uranium and other materials used in defense manufacturing. Securing U.S. interests there was a topic of presidential-level concern and involved extensive interventions by the Central Intelligence Agency.
With the collapse of the Soviet Union, both Democratic and Republican administrations shifted attention away from containing Communism and slashed generous financial aid that had helped American companies do business in Congo, the documents and interviews show.
In Africa, in particular, the United States pivoted toward human rights and good-governance issues. And globally, after 2001, the War on Terror became an all-consuming preoccupation.
Mr. Perriello, who has since left government, said he learned of the plan in 2016 to sell Tenke Fungurume not long after touring the mine. The owner had a tarnished reputation for its operations in other countries, and Mr. Perriello had counted himself a skeptic.
Still, he was convinced that American ownership was good not only for the United States but for the people of Congo. Freeport-McMoRan got largely favorable reviews on the ground, was employing thousands of Congolese and had built schools and health care clinics and provided fresh drinking water.
"What can we do?" Mr. Perriello recalled asking Linda Thomas-Greenfield - who was then an assistant secretary of state with responsibility for Africa and is now President Biden's ambassador to the United Nations - about keeping the mine under American control. Mr. Perriello said he raised the issue with the National Security Council as well. (A spokeswoman for Ms. Thomas-Greenfield said she remembered the sale of the mine but not the conversation with Mr. Perriello, and several members of the N.S.C. also said they could not recall such a conversation.)
The only serious bidders were Chinese companies, leaving no doubt about the consequences of standing by. "They were able to move swiftly and quicker than anybody else could," Kathleen L. Quirk, Freeport-McMoRan's president, said in an interview. "So we got the deal done."
Freeport-McMoRan had been determined to sell. The company, one of the world's largest copper-mining outfits, had made a catastrophically bad bet on the oil and gas industry just before oil prices tanked and the world began to shift to renewable energy. With debt piling up, the company saw no option but to unload its Congo operations.
The American response, in essence, was nothing because it was a straight financial transaction. Though the country, through the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, reviews overseas investments in American companies for national security risks, it has no oversight of transactions by American companies abroad.
The crisis, exposing significant blind spots of U.S. leaders, was just the kind of opportunity the Chinese government excels at exploiting, according to previously unreported documents and emails and interviews with diplomats, mining executives, government officials and others in China, Congo and the United States.
Over the past year, as the clean energy transition has accelerated, the U.S. government and the private sector have moved more rapidly to recover from past mistakes, scouring the world for new cobalt supplies and deploying cobalt-free batteries in some shorter-range electric cars.
But all of that falls far short of Chinese efforts to take over resources critical to a green future, including cobalt, lithium and others.
"We 'help' U.S. businesses abroad," said Mr. Perriello, pointing to efforts by the State and Commerce Departments on behalf of Walmart and other companies with a big overseas presence. "But that's not actually a strategy."
A strategy to keep the mine in Western hands - perhaps a government subsidy for Freeport, or tax incentives for a different U.S. company to step in - would have required a tool kit of options requiring a formal government policy.
That is something only now being formulated by Congress and the Biden administration.
A bill that passed the House last week included tax incentives for buyers of electric vehicles and funding for charging stations across the United States. Separate bipartisan legislation that passed the Senate in June would funnel nearly a quarter-trillion dollars into research and development to compete with China, though none of that would address supply-chain threats like the sale of the Congo mines.
The lack of a formal industrial policy for minerals and metals has come at a cost to the United States, diplomats from the last two administrations said.
"The U.S. is just not organized like China is to approach this in a systematic way," said Tibor P. Nagy Jr., an assistant secretary of state for African affairs during the Trump administration. "That is a constant source of frustration to those of us who really see the potential of Africa."
The fallout is now complicating Mr. Biden's push to make electric vehicles a central pillar of his climate change agenda. At a General Motors factory in Detroit last week, Mr. Biden acknowledged that "something went wrong along the way," adding, "You know, up until now, China has been leading in this race, but that's about to change."
Cold War Gamesmanship
Nixon stood outside the White House with the first lady, who was holding an enormous bouquet of roses, one morning in August 1970. President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire was about to pay a visit.
It had been a decade since Zaire, now the Democratic Republic of Congo, had secured independence from Belgium, and as the leader of a country abundant in natural resources, Mobutu found himself with considerable global clout.
Not only did he control those resources, but he had emerged as a key intermediary for the United States in its efforts to keep the Soviet Union from making inroads in Africa.
Access to minerals and metals in Congo had been a top priority for the United States since at least World War II. Albert Einstein wrote to President Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1939 urging him to stockpile Congolese uranium, used in the first atomic bombs.
"The United States has only very poor ores of uranium in moderate quantities," Mr. Einstein wrote, noting that "the most important source of uranium is Belgian Congo."
The United States has only very poor ores of uranium in moderate quantities. There is some good ore in Canada and the former Czechoslovakia, while the most important source of uranium is Belgian Congo.
Letter from Albert Einstein to President Franklin Delano Roosevelt
Uranium, cobalt, copper and other ores from Congo are coveted for their extraordinary purity. They are of such high grade that waste piles from old mines often contain more cobalt and copper than most active mines elsewhere in the world.
By the mid-1960s, the C.I.A. had set up one of its most extensive operations in the country, secretly bankrolling a small army of mercenaries and Congolese troops. The agency ran missions with the help of U.S. warplanes to suppress Soviet-backed rebels.
"If Zaire goes, every African state will draw the conclusion that the Soviet Union (which they don't like all that much) is the wave of the future," Henry Kissinger, the secretary of state, warned Nixon, according to a transcript of the once classified exchange.
Africa is important to us, many key products coffee, cocoa, cobalt, chrome, iron ore, diamonds come from Africa, thirty to sixty percent of our consumption; and for our European allies, the figures are even higher.
Remarks on Congo between Henry Kissinger and President Richard Nixon
Corporate America saw the U.S. intervention as an opportunity to make money while promoting American-brand capitalism. Citibank, General Motors, Goodyear and others set up manufacturing outposts or offices in Congo. In 1971, Pan Am built one of the first luxury hotels in Kinshasa, the capital, with financial support from the U.S. government.
Mobutu, a charismatic former army sergeant who would become a corrupt, luxury-loving dictator, saw the Americans as an ideal partner in his bid to grow the country's mining wealth.
With an eye to developing Tenke Fungurume, he reached out to a prominent New York diamond merchant named Maurice Tempelsman, according to a series of now declassified cables, to discuss giving him mining rights in the area.
But just before his trip to Washington in August 1970, Mobutu made a surprise announcement: He had decided to contract a Belgian company to develop the mine. Washington went into crisis mode as it tried to wrestle back the concession, and its generosity knew no bounds.
"Whatever Mobutu wants, give it to him," Herman J. Cohen, an American diplomat in Congo at the time, recalled Nixon signaling to his administration.
Hundreds of millions of dollars in U.S. aid had already been sent to Mobutu. Now Nixon agreed to give him several giant C-130 transport planes, including one that would later be loaded with $60,000 worth of Coca-Cola, at Mobutu's insistence. The Congolese leader would convert one of the planes into his presidential aircraft, lining the pilot seats in leopard skin.
The Department of Defense will have to me by 9:00 tomorrow morning a letter of authorization on the sale of three C-130's. It has got to be a cash deal, but Mobutu said five times "Je suis preparé acheter."
Memo on the provision of U.S. planes to Congo
The United States also committed $130 million in loan guarantees and other financing to help develop Tenke Fungurume. Separately, a U.S.-funded project that cost more than $800 million brought electricity to the remote area.
The campaign reached a tipping point at a black-tie dinner for Mobutu at the White House, according to Mr. Cohen.
After the meal, Mr. Tempelsman took Mobutu for a private boat ride on the Potomac. Word soon came that the Americans were getting the mining concession after all, generating speculation about what the two men had discussed.
"No one will really dare to say in the open what personal profits General Mobutu made out of the deal concluded with Mr. Tempelsman," one World Bank official later wrote in a confidential memo, first obtained by a University of Arizona researcher.
The United States had won the international competition, at least for the moment.
"The Belgians were still acting a little childish over the fact that they were beaten," read a confidential 1970 letter from the U.S. embassy in Congo to the State Department.
A 'Grand Reopening'
Mark Mollison, a mining engineer from New York City, climbed into a Toyota Land Cruiser in southeastern Congo, where he had traveled to visit Tenke Fungurume. It was by then an abandoned construction site with a mythic reputation for buried riches.
Mr. Mollison was amazed. He saw hilltops with bald spots where copper and cobalt poked through the surface. The metals were so concentrated they had killed off the grass.
"The ore was 10 times as rich as what we were mining in Arizona," Mr. Mollison recalled. "It was quite incredible.
There were also decades-old ruins: The concrete foundation for an ore crusher had turned to rubble and weeds, and an employee golf course had been engulfed by the surrounding brush.
It was the late 1990s, and Mr. Mollison belonged to a new wave of mining executives who had arrived to pick up the pieces left by the Tempelsman group two decades earlier.
After angling during the Nixon administration to get the concession and spending $250 million, the group had pulled out when it ran into a series of hurdles, including anti-government rebels who shut down a railroad needed to ship the cobalt and copper to the sea.
Mr. Kissinger, the secretary of state, helped craft a cable to apologize to the Congolese government in January 1976, explaining that the United States "deeply regrets" the "mothballing" of the project, which left behind little but these ruins.
Interest rekindled many years later after Mobutu was overthrown. The rebel leader, Laurent-Désiré Kabila, had recently seized valuable land near Tenke and Fungurume, the two towns that gave the mine its name, and used the perch to launch his insurgency.
"Everybody thought, boy, this is the grand reopening, a new awakening of Congo," Mr. Mollison said.
Western mining executives and their Wall Street bankers, smelling opportunity in the changing leadership, arrived in the rebel region by charter planes to find armed teenagers using rubber stamps with Walt Disney characters to process their passports.
The investors gathered on the terrace of what had been a posh hotel, its pool covered in green slime, as Mr. Kabila's representatives secured financial commitments for mining access. A memo written by one banker summed up Mr. Kabila's perspective: "Rules of the game: you give and I give."
Lundin Group, a Canadian mining company, was so determined to seal a deal that it agreed to give the rebels $50 million. An adviser to Mr. Kabila told reporters at the time that the cash would almost certainly be used to buy weapons for the rebel takeover.
Mr. Mollison's job, when he arrived several months later, was to evaluate if his company, now called Freeport-McMoRan, should partner with Lundin to finish what Mr. Tempelsman had started at Tenke Fungurume. Freeport-McMoRan would later publicize that undertaking as the biggest private investment ever in Congo.
"What's this place going to need?" Mr. Mollison recalled wondering. "Electric power. Lots of it. Roads. Plenty of water. Just how difficult is it going to be to operate in a place like this?"
Freeport-McMoRan eventually landed a controlling 57.75 percent stake in the mine, while Lundin got 24.75 percent. Congo's state mining enterprise, Gécamines, kept 17.5 percent.
By the end of 2007, after yet another civil war in Congo, the project got fully underway. But the roads were in such bad shape that it took an entire day to drive the 100 miles to the mine from the closest major city. Mining executives soon used airplanes to make the commute.

The central market in Fungurume was also built by Freeport-McMoRan, which has now sold its mining sites in Congo to a Chinese company.
Freeport-McMoRan went on a building spree. It helped construct a highway so cobalt and copper could be exported to other parts of Africa. To ensure it had enough power, the company spent $215 million to refurbish an aging hydroelectric plant.
"It was very impressive," said Pierrot Kitobo Sambisaya, who worked as a metallurgist at the mine for a decade. "It was what I call American style."
Sensitive to concerns that the mine would not benefit the Congolese, Freeport-McMoRan and Lundin drilled wells to provide water to 64 villages, built schools to serve more than 12,000 students and, in Fungurume, where the population had exploded as people arrived to fill jobs, constructed a large market hall to keep vendors dry during the rainy season. They also paid for a brickmaking business with about 370 workers, an anti-malaria project and a series of gardens to preserve rare plants that were being destroyed by activity at the mine.
"They were training the Congolese workers not just for menial tasks but getting them degrees and advanced degrees at universities in the United States and elsewhere," said Mr. Perriello, the Obama-era special envoy to the region. He began to question his critical view of Freeport-McMoRan, which had drawn international protest for harm to the local environment and clashes with local residents near another large mine in Indonesia.
Conflicts still emerged. Entire villages - Amoni, Kiboko and Mulumbu - were leveled to make room for the mining complex, and relocating their 1,600 residents was a fraught process. Some protests turned deadly as security forces fought with trespassers being ejected from the land.
Still, this part of Congo had never seen a private-sector project so big, ambitious and lucrative.
Freeport-McMoRan had developed one of the most modern and productive cobalt and copper mines in the world, and before long, the Congolese government began pressuring the company for a bigger share of the profits.
The company turned to the U.S. government to help push back, and the State Department, under Mrs. Clinton, dispatched the American ambassador to the mine.
The ambassador, William J. Garvelink, told Congolese officials that "Freeport-McMoRan (unlike other companies which he described as 'cowboys' coming to the DRC only to try to make money quickly) has a long-term vision of its operations in the country," according to a cable that described a May 2009 meeting.
Congo largely backed down, agreeing to a relatively modest increase in its ownership stake, to 20 percent from 17.
In signing off on the new arrangement in 2010, Richard Adkerson, Freeport-McMoRan's chief executive, said the company was "committed to continuing our positive partnership" with the Congolese "for decades to come."
A Hail Mary Pass
Overgrown grass near the Kisanfu site obscured a drilling hole made years ago by Freeport-McMoRan.
That commitment lasted just six years.
Freeport-McMoRan made a monumental blunder. Instead of doubling down on mining, it ventured into fossil fuels, spending $20 billion in 2012 to buy two oil and gas companies.
When oil prices plummeted, Freeport-McMoRan found itself mired in debt. The company shut down offshore oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico and laid off hundreds of workers. It fired the president and other top executives at its money-losing oil and gas division and searched in vain for a buyer.
Mr. Adkerson, who had spent most of his career at Freeport-McMoRan, liked to tell a story about making a bad snap on his high school football team in Mississippi and losing a big game.
Now he had done it again. And Freeport-McMoRan needed a Hail Mary pass to stay in the game.
"It breaks my heart to do it," Mr. Adkerson told Wall Street analysts in May 2016 when he announced the company would sell Tenke Fungurume.
The only bidders that wanted all of the company's stake were from China. Backed by billions of dollars in government loans, Chinese mining companies had been waiting for just this kind of opportunity.
The top bidder was China Molybdenum, which offered $2.65 billion. The company had the money available, and it "allowed them to move very quickly," Mr. Adkerson said.
The news troubled executives at the mine, including Mr. Kapanga, the general manager, who had also worked as a Congolese presidential adviser and diplomat. He phoned the American ambassador, James Swan.
"Tenke Fungurume is the jewel in the crown," Mr. Kapanga said he told Mr. Swan, worried the United States was inexplicably letting go of its biggest private investment in Congo. Mr. Swan declined to comment when contacted by The Times.
In Washington, the Obama administration was well aware how important cobalt was about to become to the global economy - and how dependent the Americans were on overseas sources.
Top scientists and officials in seven federal agencies had spent two years interviewing industry experts, academics and researchers to identify essential raw materials that were vulnerable to shortages or interruption.
Cobalt emerged in a White House report as among the most worrisome. Global demand was exploding because of its use in cellphone and laptop batteries. Domestic supply was negligible. Most cobalt was mined in Congo, the report pointed out, and China was starting to corner the market.
A Growing Demand for Clean Energy Metals and Minerals
Demand is expected to double by 2040 based on today's policies. It could quadruple if countries meet their climate goals under the Paris Agreement. Chart shows projected growth by sector.
Concerned about "China's trade-distorting export restrictions on metals and minerals," the group proposed that cobalt should be added to a list of so-called critical minerals to maintain "stable and flexible future supply chains for key emerging technologies."
The solution, the White House decided, was to create an "early warning" system to ensure the United States was alerted to threats to this supply.
Now the alarms were sounding, and no one in Washington seemed to be listening.
Rick Gittleman, a mining executive and lawyer who had worked at Freeport-McMoRan in Congo, alerted Gen. James L. Jones Jr., who had since left the Obama administration as a national security adviser.
But he was unmoved. "There's no one that's going to be interested in that," Mr. Gittleman recalled him saying. The general confirmed that account with The Times.
The focus at the time for American diplomats in Congo centered on trying to urge President Joseph Kabila out of office. He had taken over after his father was assassinated in 2001 and spent much of the next 15 years looting millions of dollars from the public treasury.
On a flight to the United States, Mr. Perriello was seated next to a Freeport-McMoRan executive after the company had announced the sale. He asked if there was anything the American government could do.
With the company's financial health on the line, there was a single-minded determination to close a deal, Mr. Perriello recalled. The company was not focused on the geopolitical repercussions of its choice, its own executives acknowledged.
"We don't currently have a mechanism to handle that discrepancy when it comes up," Mr. Perriello said, "this gap between corporate interest and national interest."
No Lessons Learned
The sale of Kisanfu was one of two major deals in recent years that marked a changing of the guard in Congo as the U.S. abandoned its mining interests there.
The sale of Tenke Fungurume closed in November 2016, just a few weeks after Mr. Trump was elected president. It drew little attention in the United States outside the financial news media.
Early in his administration, Mr. Trump signaled that challenging China's efforts to dominate mineral supplies might be a major focus. His administration issued reports on cobalt and the potential for supply shortfalls, taking note of the Tenke Fungurume sale.
Cobalt also made the Trump administration's list of metals and minerals, first proposed in the Obama administration, that are deemed critical "to the nation's security and economic prosperity."
Nonetheless, history repeated itself.
Freeport-McMoRan still owned an undeveloped site deep in the forest that contains one of the world's most important untapped sources of cobalt, a fact highlighted in the Trump administration's document listing the element as a critical resource.
When the company indicated late last year that it intended to sell the site, known as Kisanfu, there was next to no reaction from the U. S. government.
State Department and Commerce officials said in interviews that there was no high-level discussion about it.
"Nobody even talked about this," said Nazak Nikakhtar, who until January served as the Commerce Department assistant secretary in charge of tracking critical mineral supplies. "It is horrible. I mean, this is really unfortunate."
The sale, to China Molybdenum for $550 million, went ahead as announced, a month before Mr. Trump left office. With it, the last major U.S. investment in Congo's cobalt and copper mines evaporated.
#136
A coalition of 18 countries, plus dozens of banks and other institutions, will pledge to phase out coal-fired power plants domestically and to end funding for international coal projects, according to the British government, which struck the deal at a global climate summit.
The burning of coal is the single greatest contributor to climate change, and ending support for it is a major issue at the United Nations climate change conference.
The new campaign, which is expected to be announced by British officials on Thursday in Glasgow, declares that the end of coal "is in sight" because of the new coalition. The full list of 18 countries was not available, but according to the British government it includes developed and developing countries like Poland, Vietnam, Egypt, Chile and Morocco.
It was unclear whether the United States was part of the agreement. A spokeswoman for John Kerry, President Biden's climate envoy, did not respond to a request for comment.
The World Coal Association did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the new announcement but earlier this week said efforts to eliminate coal ignored the fact that coal "remains a critical to energy supply in 80 countries and the livelihood of more than 790 million people who have no access to reliable and affordable power."
The 190 countries and organizations that make up the new coalition will commit to ending all investment in new coal power generation domestically and internationally. The time frame was not immediately clear.
They will also agree to make a "just transition away from coal power in a way that benefits workers and communities" and to rapidly scale up the deployment of clean energy like wind and solar power.
"Phasing out coal is essential to reach our climate targets," Svenja Schulze, Germany's minister of the environment, said in a statement. "In the near future we will have left behind all fossil fuels and live in a new and sustainable energy world based on renewable energy."
Michael Bloomberg, who said this week that he would ramp up his American and European campaigns to phase out coal and move into 25 other countries, said in a statement that he believed tackling climate change "depends on ending coal-fired power."

HSBC and Export Development Canada plan to join the group as well, according to the statement.
Leaders of the world's 20 largest economies met in Rome before the climate conference and agreed to eliminate financing for coal plants overseas. They stopped short, though, of pledging to end coal at home because of objections from China, India, Australia and Russia.
#137
U.S. Backs Effort to Lower Carbon Output From Developing Countries
Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen said the United States would contribute to an international financing mechanism that aims to direct $500 million a year to help transition developing countries from coal based energy toward low- and zero-carbon energy sources.
Glasgow and COP26 is a pivotal moment at the start of this decisive decade of climate action. The climate crisis is already here. This is not a challenge for future generations, but one we must confront today. Rising to this challenge will require the wholesale transformation of our carbon intensive economies. I agree we must all do more. And the United States is stepping up. President Biden has already announced that we're quadrupling our international climate finance for developing countries by 2024 to more than $11 billion. This morning, as part of our continued efforts, I'm pleased to join the U.K. in announcing that the United States also intends to fully support the climate investment funds capital markets mechanism.
U.S. Backs Effort to Lower Carbon Output From Developing Countries
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said on Wednesday that the United States would support a financing mechanism that aims to direct $500 million a year to move developing countries away from coal-based energy and toward wind, solar and other low- and zero-carbon energy sources.
Speaking at the United Nations climate talks in Glasgow, Ms. Yellen acknowledged that while wealthy countries have promised billions of dollars to tackle climate change, the real cost is in the trillions.
"I agree we all must do more, and the United States is stepping up," Ms. Yellen said. But, she added, "the gap between what governments have and what the world needs is large, and the private sector needs to play a bigger role."
Financing for climate change initiatives remains an enormous point of tension at the U.N. talks. Wealthy countries have not met a promise they made more than a decade ago to raise $100 billion annually by 2020 to help poor countries - which have contributed the least to climate change but are suffering some of the worst consequences - make the transition to cleaner energy and build resilience to fiercer storms, droughts and rising seas.
The Biden administration has promised $11.4 billion annually by 2024, but that is subject to congressional approval. Ms. Yellen said on Wednesday that the private sector also needed to provide more financing.
Mark Carney, the former Bank of England governor, said that private funds to developing countries must "dramatically scale up." This week, Mr. Carney led an initiative by financial groups to commit to using their $130 trillion in assets to help countries hit their targets of reaching net-zero emissions by 2050.
The separate financing program that Ms. Yellen described is designed to issue bonds and use the proceeds to support clean energy and sustainable infrastructure in developing economies. The bonds will be issued by the Climate Investment Funds, a multilateral fund based at the World Bank that invests money contributed by countries including the United States, Britain and Japan.
Many environmental groups and organizations that represent developing countries are skeptical of private finance. That is in part because most of that money tends to go toward energy projects that can turn quicker profits, rather than the less lucrative but critical work of building sea walls, planting mangroves and other efforts to help communities adapt to the effects of climate change.
Jörn Kalinski, a senior adviser at Oxfam, said in a statement that without time frames and specific dollar targets for adaptation, "poorer nations will continue to lack the resources they need to protect lives, homes and businesses from weather disasters."
#138
Here's what we know:
World leaders finished their speeches at the Glasgow conference on Tuesday. Attention now shifts to behind-the-scenes talks, and how to finance proposals to address climate change.
GLASGOW - Some of the world's biggest financial institutions on Wednesday vowed to mobilize trillions of dollars to help shift the global economy toward cleaner energy as negotiators at the United Nations climate summit struggled with the question of how to pay for the enormous costs of climate change.
A coalition of banks, investors and insurers that collectively control $130 trillion in assets said it would commit to reaching net-zero emissions across its portfolio by 2050. It was essentially a pledge to make climate change a central focus of major financial decisions for decades to come.
"We now have the essential plumbing in place to move climate change from the fringes to the forefront of finance so that every financial decision takes climate change into account," said Mark Carney, the former head of the Bank of England, who is leading the coalition, along with billionaire and former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg.
That pledge was met with skepticism from environmentalists, though, who noted that the details were vague and that many banks still invest hundreds of billions each year in fossil fuels.
"Either they stop financing fossil expansion, or their net-zero commitments are greenwash," said Jason Opeña Disterhoft, senior climate and energy campaigner at Rainforest Action Network, an environmental group.
Money has long been a big sticking point in the global fight against climate change, and tensions over the issue have flared again at the Glasgow summit convened by the United Nations.
A decade ago, the world's wealthiest countries pledged $100 billion per year in climate aid by 2020 to help poorer countries make the transition to cleaner energy and protect themselves against the growing dangers from heat waves, floods, droughts and wildfires as the planet warms.
So far, those promises have not been met.
By one estimate, wealthy countries are still falling short by tens of billions of dollars per year. And critics have said that even the money that has been paid has been poorly targeted. A large fraction of aid to date has been handed out as loans, which developing countries often struggle to repay. And only a tiny sliver of financing has gone toward efforts to adapt to climate change.
"Our countries are the least liable for the damage to the world's environment, but we pay the highest price," said Gaston Browne, the prime minister of Barbuda and Antigua, which has struggled to rebuild after a Category 5 hurricane hit the country in 2017.
Separately, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said the United States would support a financing mechanism that aims to direct $500 million a year to move developing countries away from coal-based energy and toward wind, solar and other low- and zero-carbon energy sources.
But she noted that the real cost of climate change would most likely run to the trillions of dollars.
"I agree we all must do more, and the United States is stepping up," Ms. Yellen said. But, she added, "the gap between what governments have and what the world needs is large, and the private sector needs to play a bigger role."
To that end, a group of philanthropic foundations and international development banks also announced a $10.5 billion fund to help emerging economies with growing energy needs make the switch from fossil fuels to renewable sources.
The group, known as the Global Energy Alliance, aims to draw in more donors in the coming weeks. At the moment, it has pulled in $1.5 billion from the Rockefeller Foundation, the Ikea Foundation and the Bezos Earth Fund, along with $9 billion from development banks such as the African Development Bank and the International Finance Corporation.
The alliance says it aims to raise $100 billion in public and private capital to expand access to clean sources of electricity for a billion people in developing countries.
The climate summit is scheduled to run through Nov. 12.
A coalition of 18 countries, plus dozens of banks and other institutions, will pledge to phase out coal-fired power plants domestically and to end funding for international coal projects, according to the British government, which struck the deal at a global climate summit.
The burning of coal is the single greatest contributor to climate change, and ending support for it is a major issue at the United Nations climate change conference.
The new campaign, which is expected to be announced by British officials on Thursday in Glasgow, declares that the end of coal "is in sight" because of the new coalition. The full list of 18 countries was not available, but according to the British government it includes developed and developing countries like Poland, Vietnam, Egypt, Chile and Morocco.
It was unclear whether the United States was part of the agreement. A spokeswoman for John Kerry, President Biden's climate envoy, did not respond to a request for comment.
The World Coal Association did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the new announcement but earlier this week said efforts to eliminate coal ignored the fact that coal "remains a critical to energy supply in 80 countries and the livelihood of more than 790 million people who have no access to reliable and affordable power."
The 190 countries and organizations that make up the new coalition will commit to ending all investment in new coal power generation domestically and internationally. The time frame was not immediately clear.
They will also agree to make a "just transition away from coal power in a way that benefits workers and communities" and to rapidly scale up the deployment of clean energy like wind and solar power.
"Phasing out coal is essential to reach our climate targets," Svenja Schulze, Germany's minister of the environment, said in a statement. "In the near future we will have left behind all fossil fuels and live in a new and sustainable energy world based on renewable energy."
Michael Bloomberg, who said this week that he would ramp up his American and European campaigns to phase out coal and move into 25 other countries, said in a statement that he believed tackling climate change "depends on ending coal-fired power."
HSBC and Export Development Canada plan to join the group as well, according to the statement.
Leaders of the world's 20 largest economies met in Rome before the climate conference and agreed to eliminate financing for coal plants overseas. They stopped short, though, of pledging to end coal at home because of objections from China, India, Australia and Russia.
A group of philanthropic foundations and international development banks on Wednesday announced a $10.5 billion fund to help emerging economies with growing energy needs make the switch from fossil fuels to renewable sources.
The group, known as the Global Energy Alliance, aims to draw in more donors in the coming weeks. At the moment, it has pulled in $1.5 billion from the Rockefeller Foundation, the Ikea Foundation and the Bezos Earth Fund, along with $9 billion from international development banks such as the African Development Bank and the International Finance Corporation.
The announcement, on the sidelines of the United Nations climate summit in Glasgow, comes as the Biden administration is banking on trillions of dollars in private investment to move global energy systems away from coal, oil and gas.
Raj Shah, the president of the Rockefeller Foundation, which helped set up the alliance, said that the new fund was necessary to jump-start investments in clean energy technologies that would not otherwise draw private investors that demand high rates of return.
"Accelerating climate transitions in developing countries will not happen if an immediate 20 percent return on every investment is necessary," Mr. Shah said, adding that such an initiative would require public, philanthropic and private sectors coming together to "leverage innovative finance."
The alliance says it aims to raise $100 billion in public and private capital to expand access to clean sources of electricity for a billion people in developing countries, create 150 million jobs and avoid the carbon emissions that would have been generated by power plants that run on coal.
The money will support initiatives such as the development of mini-electricity grids in parts of rural India, help Indonesia shut down some of its oldest and most polluting coal-fired power plants, and develop a hydropower project in Sierra Leone.

#139
Day 1 of the international summit once described as the "last best hope" to slow climate change brought few actual commitments to slow climate change.
Leaders of two of the world's biggest polluters, China and Russia, did not attend in person. President Biden came with a large delegation and a large promise to reduce U.S. emissions, but was unable to show the world that he could deliver concrete legislation to achieve those cuts. India announced ambitious new targets to expand renewable energy, though nothing about how soon it would retire its vast network of coal-burning power plants.
On Tuesday, the Biden administration will unfurl a long list of climate initiatives aimed at showing the world that it can take action even when there is no consensus in Congress. The most significant announcement will be plans to heavily regulate methane, a potent greenhouse gas that can warm the atmosphere 80 times faster than carbon dioxide in the short term and one that is produced by oil and natural gas operations.
But the most striking feature so far of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow, known as COP26, has been anger, and more of it was expected on Tuesday.
There was barely contained rage at the podium on Monday, especially from leaders of some of the smallest, most vulnerable countries in the world.
There was unbridled rage outside. Youth climate activists responded to speeches inside with chants of "No more blah blah blah."
Mr. Biden spent much of Monday talking up his "build back better" climate and social policy proposals. But in the face of congressional opposition, his administration has abandoned the centerpiece policy of that bill, a measure that would incentivize the power sector to shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy. It pulled back because of objections by Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, a state that is heavily reliant on coal. Even a much pared-down version of the president's plan is in jeopardy.
Tensions over money will continue to sharpen through the week. Poorer countries will demand more aid from wealthier ones whose emissions are principally responsible for temperature rises so far.
India called for a $1 trillion commitment from wealthy countries to help developing nations make the transition to renewable energy. Small island nations threatened by rises in sea levels petitioned an international court to force the richest parts of the world to pay them damages.
But trees will get a break - in the future. On Tuesday morning, more than 100 countries that contain most of the world's forests promised to halt deforestation by 2030.
For all the promises and plans made so far, however, none of the leaders present dared to claim that it was nearly enough.
#140
KASULO, Democratic Republic of Congo - A man in a pinstripe suit with a red pocket square walked around the edge of a giant pit one April afternoon where hundreds of workers often toil in flip-flops, burrowing deep into the ground with shovels and pickaxes.
His polished leather shoes crunched on dust the miners had spilled from nylon bags stuffed with cobalt-laden rocks.
The man, Albert Yuma Mulimbi, is a longtime power broker in the Democratic Republic of Congo and chairman of a government agency that works with international mining companies to tap the nation's copper and cobalt reserves, used in the fight against global warming.
Mr. Yuma's professed goal is to turn Congo into a reliable supplier of cobalt, a critical metal in electric vehicles, and shed its anything-goes reputation for tolerating an underworld where children are put to work and unskilled and ill-equipped diggers of all ages get injured or killed.
"We have to reorganize the country and take control of the mining sector," said Mr. Yuma, who had pulled up to the Kasulo site in a fleet of SUVs carrying a high-level delegation to observe the challenges there.
But to many in Congo and the United States, Mr. Yuma himself is a problem. As chairman of Gécamines, Congo's state-owned mining enterprise, he has been accused of helping to divert billions of dollars in revenues, according to confidential State Department legal filings reviewed by The New York Times and interviews with a dozen current and former officials in both countries.
Top State Department officials have tried to force him out of the mining agency and pushed for him to be put on a sanctions list, arguing he has for years abused his position to enrich friends, family members and political allies.
Mr. Yuma denies any wrongdoing and is waging an elaborate lobbying and legal campaign to clear his name in Washington and Congo's capital of Kinshasa, all while pushing ahead with his plans to overhaul cobalt mining.
Effectively operating his own foreign policy apparatus, Mr. Yuma has hired a roster of well-connected lobbyists, wired an undisclosed $1.5 million to a former White House official, offered the United States purported intelligence about Russia and critical minerals and made a visit to Trump Tower in New York, according to interviews and confidential documents.
Mr. Yuma met with Donald Trump Jr. there in 2018, a session the mining executive described as a quick meet-and-greet. Despite such high-level access during the Trump administration, he was barred just two months later from entering the United States.
His grip on the mining industry has complicated Congo's effort to attract new Western investors and secure its place in the clean energy revolution, which it is already helping to fuel with its vast wealth of minerals and metals like cobalt.
Batteries containing cobalt reduce overheating in electric cars and extend their range, but the metal has become known as "the blood diamond of batteries" because of its high price and the perilous conditions in Congo, the largest producer of cobalt in the world. As a result, carmakers concerned about consumer blowback are rapidly moving to find alternatives to the element in electric vehicles, and they are increasingly looking to other nations with smaller reserves as possible suppliers.
There is a chance that Congo's role in the emerging economy could be diminished if it fails to confront human-rights issues in its mines. And even if Mr. Yuma works to resolve those problems, as he has pledged to do, it still may not be enough for new American investors who want to be assured the country has taken steps to curb a history of mining-industry corruption.
Jose Bumba, left, pulled a 220-pound bag of cobalt from a 26-foot-deep hole in the makeshift Kasulo mine. Working conditions on such sites can be extremely dangerous.
Congo's president, Felix Tshisekedi, has tried to sideline Mr. Yuma by stacking Gécamines with his own appointees, but he has been unwilling to cross him further. During an interview at his hillside palace in Kinshasa, Mr. Tshisekedi said he had his own strategy for fixing the country's dangerous mining conditions.
"It is not going to be up to Mr. Yuma," he said. "It will be the government that will decide."
The standoff between Mr. Yuma and the president echoes power struggles that have torn apart African countries rich with natural resources in the past. How this one plays out has implications that reach far beyond the continent, as the global battle against climate change calls for a stepped-up transition from gasoline-burning vehicles to battery-powered ones.
For Congo, the question boils down to this: Will Mr. Yuma help the country ride the global green wave into an era of new prosperity, or will he help condemn it to more strife and turmoil?
'Tired of Digging'

Statues greet motorists at the main roundabout in a mining hub in Congo's Copperbelt. One depicts an industrial miner in hard hat, headlamp and boots; another a shoeless, shirtless man in ragged shorts holding a pickax. They tell the story of the country's dual mining economies: industrial and artisanal.
High-tech, industrial mines run by global corporations like China Molybdenum employ thousands of people in Congo's cobalt sector, and while they have their own problems, they are largely not responsible for the country's tarnished reputation abroad.
It's a different story for the artisanal sector, where Mr. Yuma plans to focus the bulk of his stated reforms. Consisting of ordinary adults with no formal training, and sometimes even children, artisanal mining is mostly unregulated and often involves trespassers scavenging on land owned by the industrial mines. Along the main highway bisecting many of the mines, steady streams of diggers on motorbikes loaded down with bags of looted cobalt - each worth about $175 - dodge checkpoints by popping out of sunflower thickets.
Unable to find other jobs, thousands of parents send their children in search of cobalt. On a recent morning, a group of young boys were hunched over a road running through two industrial mines, collecting rocks that had dropped off large trucks.
The work for other children is more dangerous - in makeshift mines where some have died after climbing dozens of feet into the earth through narrow tunnels that are prone to collapse.
Kasulo, where Mr. Yuma is showcasing his plans, illustrates the gold-rush-like fervor that can trigger the dangerous mining practices. The mine, authorized by Gécamines, is nothing more than a series of crude gashes the size of city blocks that have been carved into the earth.
Once a thriving rural village, Kasulo became a mining strip after a resident uncovered chunks of cobalt underneath a home. The discovery set off a frenzy, with hundreds of people digging up their yards.
Today, a mango tree and a few purple bougainvillea bushes, leftovers of residents' gardens, are the only remnants of village life. Orange tarps tied down with frayed ropes block rainwater from flooding the hand-dug shafts where workers lower themselves and chip at the rock to extract chunks of cobalt.
Georges Punga is a regular at the mine. Now 41, Mr. Punga said he started working in diamond mines when he was 11. Ever since, he has traveled the country searching Congo's unrivaled storehouse for treasures underfoot: first gold, then copper, and, for the past three years, cobalt.
Mr. Punga paused from his digging one afternoon and tugged his dusty blue trousers away from his sneakers. Scars crisscrossed his shins from years of injuries on the job. He earns less than $10 a day - just enough, he said, to support his family and keep his children in school instead of sending them to the mines.
"If I could find another job, I'd do it," he said. "I'm tired of digging."
#141
KISANFU, Democratic Republic of Congo - Just up a red dirt road, across an expanse of tall, dew-soaked weeds, bulldozers are hollowing out a yawning new canyon that is central to the world's urgent race against global warming.
For more than a decade, the vast expanse of untouched land was controlled by an American company. Now a Chinese mining conglomerate has bought it, and is racing to retrieve its buried treasure: millions of tons of cobalt.
At 73, Kyahile Mangi has lived here long enough to predict the path ahead. Once the blasting starts, the walls of mud-brick homes will crack. Chemicals will seep into the river where women do laundry and dishes while worrying about hippo attacks. Soon a manager from the mine will announce that everyone needs to be relocated.
"We know our ground is rich," said Mr. Mangi, a village chief who also knows residents will share little of the mine's wealth.
This wooded stretch of southeast Democratic Republic of Congo, called Kisanfu, holds one of the largest and purest untapped reserves of cobalt in the world.
The gray metal, typically extracted from copper deposits, has historically been of secondary interest to miners. But demand is set to explode worldwide because it is used in electric-car batteries, helping them run longer without a charge.
Outsiders discovering - and exploiting - the natural resources of this impoverished Central African country are following a tired colonial-era pattern. The United States turned to Congo for uranium to help build the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and then spent decades, and billions of dollars, seeking to protect its mining interests here.
Now, with more than two-thirds of the world's cobalt production coming from Congo, the country is once again taking center stage as major automakers commit to battling climate change by transitioning from gasoline-burning vehicles to battery-powered ones. The new automobiles rely on a host of minerals and metals often not abundant in the United States or the oil-rich Middle East, which sustained the last energy era.
But the quest for Congo's cobalt has demonstrated how the clean energy revolution, meant to save the planet from perilously warming temperatures in an age of enlightened self-interest, is caught in a familiar cycle of exploitation, greed and gamesmanship that often puts narrow national aspirations above all else, an investigation by The New York Times found.
The Times dispatched reporters across three continents drawn into the competition for cobalt, a relatively obscure raw material that along with lithium, nickel and graphite has gained exceptional value in a world trying to set fossil fuels aside.
More than 100 interviews and thousands of pages of documents show that the race for cobalt has set off a power struggle in Congo, a storehouse of these increasingly prized resources, and lured foreigners intent on dominating the next epoch in global energy.
In particular, a rivalry between China and the United States could have far-reaching implications for the shared goal of safeguarding the earth. At least here in Congo, China is so far winning that contest, with both the Obama and Trump administrations having stood idly by as a company backed by the Chinese government bought two of the country's largest cobalt deposits over the past five years.
As the significance of those purchases becomes clearer, China and the United States have entered a new "Great Game" of sorts. This past week, during a visit promoting electric vehicles at a General Motors factory in Detroit, President Biden acknowledged the United States had lost some ground. "We risked losing our edge as a nation, and China and the rest of the world are catching up," he said. "Well, we're about to turn that around in a big, big way."
China Molybdenum, the new owner of the Kisanfu site since late last year, bought it from Freeport-McMoRan, an American mining giant with a checkered history that five years ago was one of the largest producers of cobalt in Congo - and now has left the country entirely.
In June, just six months after the sale, the Biden administration warned that China might use its growing dominance of cobalt to disrupt the American push toward electric vehicles by squeezing out U.S. manufacturers. In response, the United States is pressing for access to cobalt supplies from allies, including Australia and Canada, according to a national security official with knowledge of the matter.
American automakers like Ford, General Motors and Tesla buy cobalt battery components from suppliers that depend in part on Chinese-owned mines in Congo. A Tesla longer-range vehicle requires about 10 pounds of cobalt, more than 400 times the amount in a cellphone.
Already, tensions over minerals and metals are rattling the electric vehicle market.
Deadly rioting in July near a port in South Africa, where much of Congo's cobalt is exported to China and elsewhere, caused a global jump in the metal's prices, a surge that only worsened through the rest of the year.
Last month, the mining industry's leading forecaster said the rising cost of raw materials was likely to drive up battery costs for the first time in years, threatening to disrupt automakers' plans to attract customers with competitively priced electric cars.
Jim Farley, Ford's chief executive, said the mineral supply crunch needed to be confronted.
"We have to solve these things," he said at an event in September, "and we don't have much time."
Automakers like Ford are spending billions of dollars to build their own battery plants in the United States, and are rushing to curb the need for newly mined cobalt by developing lithium iron phosphate substitutes or turning to recycling. As a result, a Ford spokeswoman said, "we do not see cobalt as a constraining issue."
Increased mining and refining of cobalt by Chinese companies has helped meet the growing demand and advanced the fight against climate change. But as more electric vehicles are produced by more automakers worldwide, the International Energy Agency expects a cobalt shortage by 2030, based on an analysis of existing mines and those under construction. Other forecasters say a shortage could hit as soon as 2025.
How Are Electric Vehicle Batteries Made?
A review by The Times of documents filed with regulatory authorities in China shows the acquisitions in Congo have followed a disciplined playbook, announced with great fanfare by Beijing in 2015, to dominate the world's emerging clean energy economy.
As of last year, 15 of the 19 cobalt-producing mines in Congo were owned or financed by Chinese companies, according to a data analysis by The Times and Benchmark Mineral Intelligence. The biggest alternative to Chinese operators is Glencore, a Switzerland-based company that runs two of the largest cobalt mines there.
These Chinese companies have received at least $12 billion in loans and other financing from state-backed institutions, and are likely to have drawn billions more. In fact, the five biggest Chinese mining companies in Congo had lines of credit from state-backed banks that totaled $124 billion, according to the documents reviewed by The Times, even though one of them, China Molybdenum, described itself as "a pure business entity" traded on two stock exchanges.
China's goal is to control the global supply chain from the metals in the ground to the batteries themselves, no matter where the vehicles are made. The approach, in part, echoes Henry Ford's investments in Amazonian rubber plantations as the auto industry turned to mass production in the early 20th century.
The forested mine site at Kisanfu was just one of two major purchases in recent years by China Molybdenum. The first came in 2016, when it took control of Tenke Fungurume, a mine that on its own produces twice as much cobalt as any other country in the world. At least $1.59 billion of the $2.65 billion Tenke Fungurume price tag, financial records show, came from loans provided by Chinese state-owned banks.
As the Chinese were stepping up their focus on green energy in 2016, the soon-to-be U.S. president, Donald J. Trump, was extolling the fossil fuel industry, campaigning in West Virginia with a hard hat and shovel and falsely promising coal miners that "you're going to be working your asses off!" After taking office, Mr. Trump would roll back requirements on American automakers intended to accelerate the transition to electric vehicles, giving the Chinese an even wider lane.
"It is pretty heartbreaking what happened here," said Nicole Widdersheim, who worked on Africa issues for the National Security Council during the Trump administration. "Just so stupid."
The frenzy for Congo's cobalt has attracted an international cast of opportunists, luminaries and shadowy characters eager to benefit. At one point, it also drew in a Chinese-based private equity firm that Hunter Biden helped found and that was later scrutinized in the 2020 presidential campaign.
At the same time, Chinese companies are running into new headwinds from Congo's government, according to documents obtained by The Times and interviews with current and former senior U.S. officials.
Congolese officials are carrying out a broad review of past mining contracts, work they are doing with financial help from the American government as part of its broader anti-corruption effort. They are examining whether companies are fulfilling their contractual obligations, including a 2008 commitment from China to deliver billions of dollars' worth of new roads, bridges, power plants and other infrastructure.
Congo's president, Felix Tshisekedi, in August named a commission to investigate allegations that China Molybdenum, the company that bought the two Freeport-McMoRan properties, might have cheated the Congolese government out of billions of dollars in royalty payments. The company risks being expelled from Congo.
At the Tenke Fungurume mine, there have long been problems associated with trespassers from nearby villages scavenging for cobalt. After China Molybdenum called on the government to help, Congolese troops fired on a trespasser inside the mine's gates, killing him, as well as a second person who was shot after riots broke out in protest, witnesses and local officials told The Times.
Separately, at least a dozen employees or contractors at the mine told The Times that Chinese ownership had led to a drastic decline in safety and an increase in injuries, many of which were not reported to management. Two Congolese safety officers said workers were assaulted after they raised concerns and were offered bribes to cover up accidents.
"Things are falling apart in terms of safety," said Alfred Kiloko Makeba, who retired last year after a decade working as a safety supervisor at the mine.
Vincent Zhou, a spokesman for China Molybdenum, rejected claims that the company had cheated the Congolese government or relaxed safety standards, saying the opposite was true, and questioned if there was an organized effort to undermine the company.
China has an idiom that goes something like: "Where there is a will to condemn, evidence will follow," Mr. Zhou said in a written response to The Times. "Vaguely I feel that we may be caught in the gaming of greater powers."
African countries for years have been turning to China for help building infrastructure with loans or trades involving their natural resources - deals that analysts warn provide far more benefit to the Chinese.
A blueprint for those deals, now common across the continent, was sketched out in 2005 when Joseph Kabila walked into the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
Mr. Kabila, then just 33, was the new president of Congo after the assassination of his father, another tragic milepost on the poverty-stricken country's road of violence and political disruption.
China was familiar territory for Mr. Kabila, who had received military training there in the late 1990s. This visit was about enlisting the help of President Hu Jintao in turning around Congo's economy.
The United States, which had long provided economic and military assistance to Congo, was locked in wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and had become increasingly uninterested in the country. Congo's poor record on graft and human rights was also scaring away many international banks and Western investors.
Mr. Kabila's wish list was long: He wanted new roads, schools and hospitals as part of a revival plan that, he hoped, would endear him back home to a nation exhausted and dispirited by years of conflict and corruption.
In exchange, he was prepared to offer up his country's vast mineral wealth - unparalleled in much of the world.
In the imposing hall on Tiananmen Square, the two presidents outlined a deal that would change Central Africa's balance of power, according to André Kapanga, a former adviser to Mr. Kabila who offered details of the meeting for the first time in an interview with The Times.
Mr. Hu explained that many people in China's western provinces lived in deep poverty. Developing the area was a cornerstone of his domestic policy, and he needed minerals and metals to build out new industries. Congo was ready to help, Mr. Kabila assured him.
China had already acquired raw materials from Congo's neighbor, Angola, where it offered generous financial support in exchange for oil.
But this potential deal with Mr. Kabila was more ambitious than any other, and a diplomatic drama would play out at the riverside Palais de la Nation in the capital of Kinshasa before it was sealed.
The setting was Mr. Kabila's inauguration in 2006, after he stood before voters in a formal election and won the presidency. The Bush administration sent a delegation led by Elaine Chao, then the secretary of labor.
Mr. Kabila liked motorcycles, and she presented him with a Harley-Davidson trinket when she greeted him at a lunch. That would be the extent of their interaction, Ms. Chao believed, but members of her delegation urged her to ask for a private meeting, according to Laura Genero, an associate deputy labor secretary who was on the trip. To her surprise, Mr. Kabila complied with a meeting the next day.
Ms. Chao was so unprepared for the invitation that she had to borrow a beige pantsuit from Ms. Genero. She had packed just one work outfit.
The U.S. delegation congratulated Mr. Kabila on his democratic victory and listened as he talked about wanting to expand access to electricity across the nation. One of his aides characterized the meeting as mostly small talk.
But a similar meeting between the new president and Chinese officials played out differently, according to Mr. Kapanga, who was briefed on both the U.S. and Chinese discussions.
The Chinese used the opportunity to begin formal talks with Mr. Kabila that would result in a $6 billion agreement: China would pay for roads, hospitals, rail lines, schools and projects to expand electricity, all in exchange for access to 10 million tons of copper and more than 600,000 tons of cobalt.
The local media called it the "the deal of the century," and while Mr. Kabila celebrated the agreement, the global financial community reacted more warily, worried Congo was taking on too much debt.
American officials marveled at the deal's historic scale. In secret cables made public by WikiLeaks, they noted that previous Chinese investment in Congo had been "an informal, somewhat disorganized collection of Chinese businesses" that did not seriously threaten U.S. interests.
Now something much grander was in the making: "2,000 miles of roadway linking Orientale and Katanga provinces, 31 hospitals, 145 health centers, two large universities and 5,000 government housing units are pledged," according to a cable in 2008 from the U.S. embassy in Kinshasa to members of the Central Intelligence Agency, the secretary of state and other officials.
"And that's not all," the cable continued.
Attracting a Phoenix
By 2015, China's presence in Congo had become visible in numerous infrastructure projects: Soccer stadiums rose from the dust, roadways were expanded, work began on water treatment facilities.
But not all of its progress in cornering the cobalt market could be measured in brick and mortar. The Chinese ambassador at the time, Wang Tongqing, kicked off an American-style diplomatic blitz.
Mr. Wang threw out the jump ball that year at a Chinese corporate basketball tournament that drew Congolese spectators.
He gave out scholarships to Congolese students to study in China and was on hand when a Chinese organization donated plane tickets for a Congolese choir to tour his country. At one point, he offered $1 million for Ebola relief in Congo.
Mr. Wang's activities coincided with the 2015 rollout of his country's "Made in China 2025" policy, which detailed China's plan to transform itself into a "manufacturing superpower" in 10 areas, including batteries for electric vehicles.
Almost instantly a tidal wave of government-backed capital poured into Chinese companies in Congo and elsewhere. Deals quickly followed.
That year, the state-owned China Nonferrous Metal Mining Group said it would partner with Congo's state mining company, Gécamines, to develop the Deziwa site, then one of the largest copper and cobalt concessions in the country.
In 2017, Zijin Mining, a Chinese state-backed company with a slogan of "Harmony Begets Wealth," raised almost $700 million from a sale of private shares to develop its Kolwezi mine.
Congo's cobalt will power the electric cars of the future. But in the capital of Kinshasa, residents rely on a system of rickety, fume-spewing minibuses nicknamed the "Spirit of Death."
Public statements about the deals signaled some of China's ambition, but the history and scale of the effort have not been previously reported.
Corporate filings, including annual reports and bond prospectuses, examined by The Times show that the five biggest Chinese companies in Congo had been given at least $124 billion in credit lines for their global operations. All of the companies are state-owned or have significant minority stakes held by various levels of the Chinese government.
"Unlike the U.S., the Chinese government is always behind Chinese investors in Africa and more specifically in D.R.C.," said Mr. Kapanga, the former adviser to Mr. Kabila.
The biggest deal came in April 2016, when China Molybdenum, a company whose biggest shareholders are a government-owned company and a reclusive billionaire, made its $2.65 billion offer to buy Tenke Fungurume, an American-owned mine atop one of the biggest cobalt reserves in the world.
There was one complication. Freeport-McMoRan had a Canadian partner that had the right of first offer to buy its stake. China Molybdenum's solution was to have a Shanghai-based private equity firm buy out the partner, but even that deal relied on money from the Chinese government.
None of the $1.14 billion raised to buy the partner's share came from private investors, company filings show. Instead, it came from Chinese state-controlled entities, including from bank loans guaranteed by China Molybdenum as well as cash brought to the deal through obscure shell companies controlled by government-owned banks, according to the filings.
The board of the private equity firm, commonly known as BHR, was dominated by Chinese members but also included three Americans: Devon Archer, a businessman who later was convicted of defrauding the Oglala Sioux tribe in a case still working through the legal system, and James Bulger, son of the former president of the Massachusetts State Senate.
Another was Hunter Biden, whose father was vice president at the time.
It is not clear if Mr. Biden, who had helped found the firm in 2013, was involved in the deal. Mr. Biden did not respond to requests for comment. A former member of the BHR board, who was not authorized to speak about internal business matters, said that none of the Americans had played a role and that the fees generated for the work had not been distributed to Mr. Biden or others. A spokesman for President Biden on Friday said he had not been made aware of his son's connection to the sale.
How and why the firm had become involved was a mystery to the chief executive who negotiated the sale for Freeport-McMoRan's Canadian-based partner, Lundin Mining.
"Were they a partner, their adviser or a financier? I don't know," said Paul Conibear, then Lundin's chief executive.
An elaborate event under white tents in Kinshasa celebrated China's new ownership in May 2017. Mr. Wang was there along with Chinese officials who had helped finance the purchase - and a host of Chinese government-affiliated bankers looking to make even more mining deals.
Within a few years, they would help orchestrate China Molybdenum's purchase of Kisanfu, the huge untapped cobalt reserve, from the same American mining giant. Together the sales marked a changing of the guard in Congo as the United States abandoned its mining interests - a problem that now weighs on President Biden as he and his aides have come to realize the extent of China's dominance in clean energy.
"The D.R.C. has a vast territory, rich natural resources and great investment potential," Mr. Wang told the crowd. "A Chinese proverb says, 'Build a beautiful nest to attract the phoenix.'"
'Safety Is Just on Paper'
At first, the changes seemed almost trivial at Tenke Fungurume - a 24-hour operation that employs more than 7,000 across a landscape the size of Los Angeles marked by deep craters and dust kicked up by earth-moving vehicles.
The new Chinese managers showed up in shorts and sneakers, a shock to employees who had been required to wear steel-toed boots and safety goggles.
"We were like, 'Oh, this is not possible,'" said Pierrot Kitobo Sambisaya, who worked as a metallurgist at the mine for a decade until 2019 and had grown accustomed to a stricter environment.
Soon, work anniversaries came and went with no recognition. Holiday parties where workers' families were invited to tour the mine no longer took place. Dozens of janitor and driver jobs once held by Congolese citizens went to the Chinese.
That was just the start. Employees were concerned that the mine was also becoming more dangerous, according to interviews with workers in communities surrounding the mine, current and former safety inspectors, Congolese government officials and mining executives.
Workers climbed into acid tanks to conduct repairs without checking the air quality. Others drove bulldozers and other heavy equipment without training or did dangerous welding jobs without proper oversight.
Last year, a worker was sitting in his truck while it was being towed, and it flipped. The worker tried to jump to safety, but the truck landed on him and crushed him to death, according to an annual operations report from China Molybdenum.
All of it was an extreme departure from the company's American predecessor, which had "zero tolerance" for risky activities and safety violations, according to Alfred Kiloko Makeba, the veteran safety supervisor, and 10 other current and former employees, managers and contractors.
Freeport-McMoRan, which had built the mine, had learned some hard lessons years before at its copper and gold mine in Indonesia, facing international protest over its dumping toxic mine waste into a river in the rainforest as well as violent conflicts over its operations there.
In Congo, the company had its own struggles as it moved to build Tenke Fungurume, displacing more than 1,500 residents in a haphazard process. But once the mine opened, it gained an unusual amount of respect for its commitment to worker safety, both among local officials and U.S. diplomats.
Worker safety is an issue at other industrial mines in Congo, but under Freeport, employees who violated rules were immediately disciplined or fired, safety officers said. Records examined by The Times show just one reported death among workers during the eight years Freeport-McMoRan ran the mine, although it repeatedly published accounts of near-fatal accidents as cautionary guides.
When safety inspectors discovered violations after China Molybdenum took over, they were sometimes told to overlook them, or offered bribes to do so, workers and supervisors said. And when they did try to enforce the rules, violence sometimes followed.
One safety officer said he was thrown to the ground by a worker he had called out for improperly using welding equipment. The man twisted his arm and broke his cellphone and work-issue camera.
An executive at Gécamines, the Congolese agency that is a minority shareholder in the mine, said employees had reported confrontations and safety problems to the agency's board. Safety issues are now part of a broader review of China Molybdenum's operations.
Mr. Zhou, the China Molybdenum spokesman, denied that any inspectors had been assaulted. The allegations, he suggested, were probably being fabricated by fired employees.
In a statement to The Times, he said the mine had "a robust occupational health and safety framework in place and continues to exercise its zero tolerance rules." In fact, he said, "internal statistics" published in a company report this year showed that worker injuries had declined since the company took over.
The Rush to Expand
China Molybdenum is steadily growing its output. Last December, it snatched up Kisanfu, paying Freeport-McMoRan $550 million for what is considered one of the world's largest untapped supplies of cobalt. The ground underneath the site contains enough cobalt, according to China Molybdenum's estimates, to power hundreds of millions of long-range Teslas.
And then in August, China Molybdenum announced plans to spend $2.5 billion at Tenke Fungurume to double production over the next two years. When the expansion is complete, the mine will produce nearly 40,000 tons a year. Last year, the United States produced just 600 tons.
This rush to expand, however, has drawn scrutiny from top government officials in Congo, reaching all the way to Mr. Tshisekedi, the president.
Questions have surfaced over payments Tenke Fungurume's operators may owe to Congo, dating back to when the American company controlled the mine. When new deposits are confirmed at Tenke Fungurume, the owners are required to notify Gécamines, the Congolese agency, and pay $12 for every additional ton.
The accusations have provoked a bitter dispute between Congolese officials and the mine managers, with China Molybdenum's spokesman calling the allegations "unbelievable, wrong calculations" based on an accounting error.
Gécamines executives have discussed forcing out the management at Tenke Fungurume or even taking the mine out of China Molybdenum's control, according to two Congolese mining executives involved in confidential discussions as well as a government official briefed on the talks.
Robert North, a New Mexico-based geologist who has helped prepare reserve estimates at the mine for Freeport and China Molybdenum, said both companies as well as Gécamines knew of large amounts of cobalt underground at the site. China Molybdenum has been cautious in declaring it, he said, until the company knows it wants to go to the expense of extracting the deeper layers.
Mr. Tshisekedi's commission is still investigating the allegations, and the president himself recently presided over a tense, six-hour meeting with top company executives.
Separately, the Congolese government, with financial assistance from the United States, is examining numerous mining contracts to determine whether Congo has been shortchanged more broadly. While the Chinese-funded infrastructure projects got off to a flashy start, many have not been built, officials said.
During a visit to the cobalt-mining region this year, the president acknowledged that corrupt or incompetent government officials in Congo might deserve some blame for deals that have left the nation feeling shortchanged.
"Some of our compatriots had badly negotiated the mining contracts," he said. "I'm very harsh on these investors who come to enrich themselves alone. They come with empty pockets and leave as billionaires."
Chinese government officials insist that the relationship is still on track and that the benefits to Congo are substantial.
The countries have a "longstanding friendship, and the bilateral practical cooperation has yielded fruitful win-win results and enjoys broad prospects," Zhao Lijian, spokesman for China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said at a news conference in September.
In an interview in Kinshasa, Mr. Tshisekedi said that his focus was not on which foreign power would dominate mining in Congo, but rather on how his country could share in the wealth generated by the clean energy revolution.
"We have an amazing potential for renewable energy, be it through our strategic metals or through our rivers," he said, referring to both mining and hydroelectric power. "Our idea is, how can we put this amazing resource at the disposal of the world, but while making sure that it first benefits Congolese and it benefits Africans?"
#142
LONDON - As Britain prepares to host a landmark climate summit in Glasgow this week, the milestones of its own evolution to a more climate-friendly economy are on vivid display along the railroad line from London to Scotland.
Near Gainsborough, a river town 150 miles north of the capital, one of Britain's last coal-fired power plants still spews carbon dioxide and other gases into the air. Another 150 miles north, off the coast of the seaside port of Blyth, the slender blades of five turbines in an offshore wind farm turn lazily in the breeze.
The two plants, both owned by the French utility giant EDF, illustrate how far Britain has come. The coal station, restarted recently to cover a shortfall in electricity, is slated to be taken out of operation next year, while the company plans to install experimental floating turbines in the waters off Blyth.
"We're talking about a huge transition," said Paul Spence, the director of strategy and corporate affairs at EDF, referring to Britain's goal of being a carbon-neutral economy by 2050. "A lot of things need to happen to keep the lights on."
Britain is not just the host of the climate meeting, known as COP26, it has a credible claim to being a global leader in climate policy. The birthplace of the Industrial Revolution, Britain became the first country to legally mandate reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions through the Climate Change Act in 2008. Its high-tech windmills and superannuated smokestacks are only the most visible evidence of a three-decade campaign.
Having built the world's largest offshore wind industry, Britain has reduced emissions by 44 percent from 1990 levels. Its target to cut them by at least 68 percent by 2030 is one of the most ambitious of any major economy, according to the Climate Action Tracker, a scientific analysis of the policies of countries.
If Britain achieves that target, which is far from clear, it would be one of a handful of countries doing enough to fulfill the key goal of the Paris Agreement: limiting the long-term rise in the planet's temperatures to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
To hit its headline number, Prime Minister Boris Johnson's government has set out a series of attention-grabbing goals: End the sale of all gasoline- and diesel-fueled cars by 2030; end the use of all coal and gas-fired power plants by 2035; and end the sale of all fossil-fueled home heating systems by 2035.
"The U.K. was first out of the blocks with the climate act, and it inspired Sweden and then Germany," said Johan Rockström, the director of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany. "The U.K. has successfully been able to phase out coal, which is very symbolic because it first started in England."
The temporary restart of the coal plant near Gainsborough - made necessary by low winds on the North Sea that slowed the turbines - shows that this transition is not without hiccups. A lack of wind or sun can stymie renewable energy sources.
Local resistance has constricted the development of the onshore wind industry. Fears about energy reserves have led Britain to consider allowing drilling in a vast new oil field off the Shetland Islands. There is even a proposal for a new coal field in Cumbria, in northwest England, which would seem to cut against Britain's climate aspirations.
Climate experts also fault Mr. Johnson for not laying out a realistic road map to achieve his ambitious emissions goals. Britain has failed to raise adequate funds to finance clean-energy projects. It has not shown farmers, key drivers in reducing emissions, how they can contribute by cultivating peat lands and other conservation techniques.
Nor is Britain the diplomatic dynamo it once was. When Mr. Johnson convenes more than 100 countries in Glasgow, he will push some vaulting goals, including a global end to the use of coal. But he will do so as the leader of a country that divorced itself from the European Union and has so far been unable to galvanize the world's biggest emitters: China, the United States and India.
Still, for all the fears of backsliding, Britons evince genuine pride about being pioneers in the transition to a carbon-neutral future. After all, said Alice Bell, a London-based climate change campaigner, "We led the world into this problem."
The country that was synonymous with the belching factories of the Industrial Revolution, that once darkened its skies and fouled its rivers, that gave the world the phrase "coals to Newcastle," now produces slightly more than half its electricity from non-fossil-fuel sources, predominantly wind.
While BP, Shell and other energy giants lobby the government to keep burning gas, there is no analogy in Britain to Senator Joe Manchin III, the West Virginia Democrat with financial ties to the coal industry, who pressured the Biden administration to water down core elements of its climate legislation.
Unlike in the United States, where climate change is a partisan issue, green policies win broad support on the left and right. The Climate Change Act, which stipulated an 80 percent reduction in emissions by 2050, passed Parliament by a vote of 463 to 5.
Nearly a dozen countries and the European Union now have similar laws on the books. In 2019, Mr. Johnson's predecessor, Prime Minister Theresa May, went even further, making Britain the first major economy to commit to being net-zero by 2050, meaning it would remove as much greenhouse gas from the atmosphere as it produces.
To some extent, Britain's leadership is an accident of history, rooted in Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's bitter showdown with striking coal miners in 1984. By crushing the union and slashing subsidies for the coal industry, Mrs. Thatcher accelerated Britain's search for alternative energy sources, namely natural gas.
"She got rid of the coal miners for a combination of political and economic reasons," said Tom Burke, the chairman of E3G, an environmental think tank, and a former government adviser. "But it gave the U.K. a degree of freedom of action that wasn't available to other countries."
Though Mrs. Thatcher later came to view climate activism as a left-wing preoccupation, she gave two speeches in 1989 that historians say were the first significant statements on climate change by a world leader.
"What we are now doing to the world - by degrading the land surfaces, by polluting the waters and by adding greenhouse gases to the air at an unprecedented rate - all this is new in the experience of the earth," she said to the United Nations.
Mrs. Thatcher planted the seed for a bipartisan cause, as Conservative and Labour governments sought to burnish their green credentials. British diplomats played key roles in brokering climate deals in Rio de Janeiro and Kyoto, Japan. Britain installed climate attachés in its embassies around the world.
In 2006, a British government adviser, Nicholas Stern, produced a seminal study of the economic effects of climate change, which framed the debate before the 2009 summit in Copenhagen and set the stage for the Climate Act, passed under a Labour prime minister, Gordon Brown.
When the Conservatives came to power in 2010, they viewed climate policy as a way to appeal to younger voters, many of whom viewed the Tories as a tightfisted party in thrall to business interests. Parliament created a climate change committee, which prodded the government to adopt policies that would help Britain meet its goals. Several of its policies were mimicked by fellow European Union members. "We basically ran the E.U. on climate policy," Mr. Burke said.
Then came the Brexit vote in 2016, and "we lost our most important tool for influencing other countries, which was the E.U," he said.
Mr. Johnson, who once scoffed that wind farms would "barely pull the skin off a rice pudding," now speaks about climate change with the zeal of the converted. Allies say he has been convinced of the need for action by his third wife, Carrie Johnson, who campaigns against plastic pollution.
But critics say Mr. Johnson's bracing words are belied by his actions. The Climate Action Tracker, while praising Britain's ambitions, criticized its financial commitment to achieving them, calling it "highly insufficient."
"It's accurate to say that this is a betrayal of a national commitment by the current government," Mr. Burke said.
Mr. Johnson's pro-Brexit government, he said, depends on support from the libertarian wing of the Tory party, which opposes far-reaching climate initiatives, while his anti-business messaging hinders partnerships with the private sector.
For private companies, the government's messaging has been muddled. EDF said it would like to build more onshore wind farms, but local resistance and lack of incentives has made it less attractive. And the government has struggled to line up financing for a new generation of nuclear plants.
"We're only a quarter of the way toward the decarbonized energy system that the prime minister set as a goal for 2035," said Mr. Spence, of EDF. "We need all the answers, faster than we've ever done them before, if we're going to get anywhere close to a 1.5-degree world."
For all of Britain's agenda-setting, there is also a sense among activists and experts that there is only so much a midsize country can do to solve a planetary problem. Its total emissions account for barely 1 percent of the world's total. China accounts for nearly 30 percent, and the United States for 14 percent.
"Imagine if these policies had been picked up in 1997 by the United States," said David King, a former climate envoy and scientific adviser to Prime Minister Tony Blair. "The world would be a very different place."
#143
Voters in Norway ousted their conservative prime minister on Monday, turning instead to a center-left leader following an election campaign dominated by climate change, and the growing contradictions between the country's environmental aspirations and its dependence on its vast oil and gas reserves.
The vote came at the end of a tumultuous summer in Europe, marked by scorching temperatures and flooding in many countries. Once a distant prospect for many Norwegians, global warming became a more tangible reality that all political parties in the wealthy Nordic nation of 5.3 million could no longer ignore.
Though smaller Norwegian parties with the most aggressive stance toward fossil fuels fared less well than expected Monday, the vote offered evidence that the climate issue may be shifting the balance of power to the left in some European countries, among them Germany, which is holding its own election in just two weeks. The Social Democratic candidate there has been leading in the polls, and the Green candidate is ranking third.
In Norway, the Labour Party, led by former Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Store, won around 26 percent of the votes in the country's parliamentary elections and was poised to form a coalition with the Center Party. But he may also have to include a smaller left-wing party that has demanded a more aggressive response to tackle climate change, and that could make any coalition deeply divided over fossil fuels and taxes.
The release in August of a United Nations report on the irreversible impact of global warming put climate change at the forefront of the Norwegian vote, buoying green parties in the polls and leading observers to describe it as a "climate election."
Deadly floods in Germany and Belgium, and fires in Greece and Italy, made the climate emergency more real for many Norwegians, who have called on their leaders to confront the environmental cost of Norway's oil and gas industry.
"Norway tries hard to act as a pro-nature, pro-diversity society, but our main source of wealth comes from oil and fossil fuels," said Thomas Hylland Eriksen, a professor of social anthropology at the University of Oslo. "That tension became increasingly visible with this climate election."
While several smaller parties with ambitious approaches on climate appeared to be gaining momentum in the weeks leading to the election, on Monday they enjoyed only mixed results.
That raised questions about Norway's readiness to take a hard look at its economic dependence on fossil fuels. Several parties shared a pro-climate platform but differed on other issues, scattering green votes and keeping the parties under 8 percent.
With electric cars now accounting for 70 percent of new vehicle sales in the country, with an already ambitious tax on carbon dioxide emissions that could triple by 2030, and with emission goals in line with those of the European Union, Norway, which isn't part of the bloc, has tried to champion a range of environment-friendly policies.
It is electrifying its fleets of ferries, and Oslo's city center has become mostly car-free. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Erna Solberg, the Conservative Party leader defeated on Monday, Norway has also sought to establish a global and legally binding agreement to tackle plastic pollution, and it has been a leader in rainforest conservation.
But such efforts are dwarfed by the environmental cost of Norway's fossil fuel activities, according to climate scientists, who say that only concrete measures designed to move away from oil and gas exploitation will make a difference. Norway is the leading petroleum producer in Western Europe, and the world's third-largest exporter of natural gas behind Russia and Qatar.
The country has built so much of its wealth on oil and gas fields discovered in the North Sea in the late 1960s that most politicians argue it will take decades to transition from an industry that brings 14 percent of Norway's revenues, employs nearly 7 percent of its work force, and has fed a $1.4 trillion sovereign-wealth fund, the world's largest.
Still, Bard Lahn, a researcher on climate and oil policy at the Oslo-based Center for International Climate Research, said Norway reached a turning point in May, when the International Energy Agency called for a halt to new oil and natural gas projects.
"The International Energy Agency had been an important source of expertise and credibility for both the government and oil companies in justifying the continuation of oil and gas exploration," Mr. Lahn said.
The energy agency's conclusions and the U.N. report on climate change both shifted the debate during the campaign, Mr. Lahn said. "Climate wasn't necessarily supposed to be such a central issue, and all of a sudden, it was," he said.
Despite the soul-searching, the four main political parties all back continued oil exploration and production for the moment, as economic inequalities also dominated the campaign. Mr. Store argued that the revenues from oil could be used to finance a transition, but that stopping exploration and production would only hurt the country's economy.
Five smaller parties, including some that could participate in a coalition led by Mr. Store, have pushed for an end to oil and gas exploration. The Greens, which made gains in the polls after the release of the U.N. report, even campaigned for an end to all such activities by 2035. But on Monday, they won less than 4 percent of the vote.
A former foreign minister, Mr. Store, 61, had long been a prime contender to lead the country, but he was defeated twice by Ms. Solberg, in 2013 and 2017. During her two terms, Ms. Solberg lowered taxes and increased public spending. Throughout the coronavirus pandemic, Norway has had one of the lowest death rates in Europe.
Ms. Solberg will also be remembered for having formed a coalition with the anti-immigrant Progress party that joined her government in 2013. It then left the coalition in January 2020 in protest against the repatriation of Norwegian families who had joined the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. Since then, Ms. Solberg had been leading a minority government.
Critics and climate scientists say Ms. Solberg did too little to address climate change during her time as leader. But her successor will also face considerable challenges in trying to take climate change policies to the next level, like how to support workers in the oil and gas sector.
"Until now, Norway had been picking the low-hanging fruit in climate change mitigation policies," said Fay Farstad, a senior researcher at the Center for International Climate Research. "Now that we may be getting into the harder part, there has been more attention to the fairness of such policies, and making sure that the costs are being shared."
In a victory speech on Monday, Mr. Store vowed to lead a "fair environment policy" and to deliver on the fight against climate change, although he may have to compromise with other parties that may make up his coalition and have diverging interests on oil and taxes.
Mr. Hylland Eriksen, the social anthropologist at Oslo University, said another challenge will be to reconcile all Norwegians with the fact that their oil bonanza may have to come to an end.
"Many feel that it's too little too late," he said, "Others who are in favor of oil argue that we're only five million. But if we, as the richest people in the world, don't make efforts, then who is going to?"
#144
REDCAR, England - Standing 180 feet tall, the coal bunker that dominated the skyline at the defunct steelworks in northeast England was weathered, discolored and an eyesore to some who lived nearby. Yet it was such a symbol of the region's industrial heritage that campaigners fought hard to stop its demolition.
They never had a chance. The tower was in the way of an economic development project, and last month controlled explosions reduced to it a few crumpled remains on a landscape littered with relics of rust belt Britain.
The demolition was part of an effort to convert the 4,500-acre site into a "freeport," or low tax zone, that will build wind turbine blades and focus on clean energy and advanced manufacturing.
Redcar is more than just a town in transition, though. It is part of Prime Minister Boris Johnson's far-reaching plan to spread the good life beyond prosperous southeastern England to neglected parts in the middle and North of the country - a policy he never defined but has called "leveling up."
The concept has since become a central pillar of Mr. Johnson's agenda, one he believes will shape his legacy as Britain's leader. He considers it so important that last month he gave one of his ablest ministers, Michael Gove, the job of transforming a vague series of aspirations into a strategy - one that can improve the lives of working-class Northern voters who helped the Conservative Party gain a landslide election victory two years ago.
The issue is likely to be front and center at the party's annual conference, which begins Sunday in Manchester.
It is places like Redcar, a North Sea town of about 38,000, where Mr. Johnson's ambitions will be put to the test. Like many other towns in the North, it has been battered by deindustrialization, and thousands of jobs were lost when the steel complex closed in 2015.
On one of his first days in the job, Mr. Gove headed to Redcar to visit the nascent freeport project at the steelworks site, known as Teesworks, telling reporters afterward: "All you need to do in order to understand 'leveling up' is to come here."
Walking his dog close to the steelworks where he was employed in the 1970s, Stephen Bradbury, 73, expressed little regret over the demolition of the tower, a silo-like structure that held 5,000 tons of coal.
"Good riddance," he said, recalling his time as an electrician at the complex. "The area suffered when it was closed down, but you have to move on."
Still, Mr. Bradbury was not wholly convinced that Mr. Johnson's pet project would revitalize the area. "You will never level up the North and the South," he said.
Ben Houchen, the mayor of Tees Valley and an influential member of Mr. Johnson's Conservative Party, said that leveling up would take years. He compared the economic disparity between the North and the South of England to the divide in East and West Germany after the country was united.
But Mr. Houchen, a leading architect of the development program, said leveling up was the government's "No. 1 policy" and what Mr. Johnson would be judged upon.
"Ultimately, a government that wants to govern for the whole country has to do something about that if it wants to win the next election," he said, adding, "You've got to do something very dramatic to be able to move the dial, and something like Teesworks does that: 20,000 jobs over the next 12 years."
Still, some analysts believe that there are so many complex and interlocking problems in neglected parts of the country that "leveling up" risks misfiring. And while the lack of specificity allows the government to avoid alienating anyone for now, it will eventually catch up to them.
"Politically if you don't define it, then leveling up appeals to everybody," said Paul Swinney, director of policy and research at the Center for Cities, a research institute. "If you define it, you start to exclude people and start to annoy people." "We shouldn't solely be focused on bring in more jobs - though if we can, then great - we should be focused on life expectancy, health outcomes and skills," he said.
To make a success of these kinds of projects, known as regeneration in Britain, there must not only be companies willing to hire but also workers with the right skills and qualifications - and a transportation network able to get them to work.
As the crow flies, it is less than 10 miles from Redcar to Hartlepool, another town that suffered badly from deindustrialization, but with no bridge to connect them, the journey takes 45 minutes by car. It takes even longer by train.
So any surge in job creation at the new site in Redcar is unlikely to help Ian Jennings. After a spell of unemployment, Mr. Jennings, 49, has a job in a factory in Hartlepool and would like to trade up to something better.
Unemployment in Hartlepool is around 8 percent, well above the national average of about 5 percent.
Hartlepool is also slated to get a "freeport" in the area of its docks, though there are no details yet about what will happen there.
"There are a lot of promises being made and one government is as bad as the next," Mr. Jennings said, "but I can't see a lot of things happening in my lifetime."
Poor diet and ill health have also taken a toll on life expectancy in Hartlepool. Outside the Wharton Trust, a charity, there is a line of around 50 people for free food toward the end of its shelf life that a Tesco supermarket has donated.
Sacha Bedding, chief executive of the trust, warns of a short-term crisis, with rising prices for heating and food combining with the end of a bigger welfare payment that was provided during the pandemic.
"The scale of where we are in left-behind places is massive," he said, citing lagging educational achievement. Searching for a silver lining, he added: "At least people are talking about 'leveling up,' even if nobody fully understands what it is."
The leveling-up project should, he added, "be our Marshall Plan for the decade if it is to be meaningful; it's about reconstruction on a scale which we have probably never done in peacetime." The worry was that instead of producing a 10-year plan and empowering communities with cash, the government tended to chase headlines and "shoot from the hip," he said.
In Redcar, Rachel Woodings of Coatham House, a charity that supports young homeless people, said that many residents were close to eviction or were sofa-surfing, simply staying where they could overnight with friends.
"Young people don't have the same opportunities," she said. "It's a lack of jobs. It's probably a skill set that's missing too. It's the same problems going around and around."
It's not just the young who are struggling. Sharon Nicolson, 54, who is unemployed, said she had sometimes applied for 30 jobs in a week.
"You can't survive on £60 a week when I have to pay for electricity, feed myself, clothe myself - it's ridiculous," she said, referring to her welfare payments.
Back near the derelict steelworks, John Nelson, 66, described how those who grew up nearby almost inevitably ended up taking the plentiful jobs that were once available.
"My dad worked here, so when I left school it was destined that I would work at British Steel," he said, referring to the company that at one point operated the enormous plant.
But eventually he chose an alternate route, leaving to set up his own business; none of his children went to work there. Mr. Nelson said he welcomed the demolition of the old industrial buildings.
"I know some people see beauty in them, but most of the people who are going on about it never worked there or had anything to do with it," he said of those who campaigned in vain to save the tower.
"You need to move on and earn a living," he sai
#145
To some, it felt like the oil executive blurted the quiet part out loud.
"We should abandon the fantasy of phasing out oil and gas," said Amin Nasser, head of what is, by far, the world's biggest oil producer, Saudi Aramco.
The energy transition was "visibly failing," he added, saying that predictions of impending peak oil and gas demand were flatly wrong. The room, full of representatives of the fossil-fuel industry at a conference in Houston, greeted the statement with applause.
Mr. Nasser's comments spoke to the starkly divergent visions of what role fossil fuels will play in the global economy over the coming decades. The burning of fossil fuels is the main driver of climate change.
The oil industry maintains that its products, namely petroleum and natural gas, will play a dominant role for decades to come. And it is investing in new development, particularly in gas, with that in mind.
On the other hand, the International Energy Agency, regarded as one of the foremost authorities on that question, projects that oil and gas demand will peak by 2030 as renewable energy and electric vehicle sales grow exponentially, spurred by incentives and subsidies. Just a few months ago, at the biggest annual climate summit, negotiators from nearly all the world's nations agreed to transition "away from fossil fuels."
In an interview with the Times last year, Fatih Birol, the I.E.A.'s executive director, said he thought the likes of Mr. Nasser weren't seeing the whole picture. "I have a gentle suggestion to oil executives, they only talk among themselves," he said. "They should talk to car manufacturers, to the heat pump industry, to the renewable industry, to investors, and see what they all think the future of energy looks like."
However Mr. Nasser, in his Texas speech this week, suggested that the I.E.A. was the one misreading the markets by focusing too heavily on rich countries and ignoring the enormous surge in demand for energy expected across countries in Asia and Africa that are just beginning to industrialize.
His retort was, essentially, to ask if the I.E.A. thought oil and gas companies were throwing their money away by collectively investing trillions of dollars in increasing exploration, drilling and infrastructure. "Peak oil and gas are unlikely for sometime to come, let alone 2030," said Mr. Nasser, speaking at the CERAWeek by S&P Global conference. "It seems no one is betting the farm on that."
While they spoke less bluntly at the conference, the C.E.O.s of Shell, Exxon Mobil and Brazil's state-owned oil company, Petrobras, echoed Mr. Nasser's points. In an interview with the Times earlier this month, Petrobras' C.E.O., Jean Paul Prates, said he saw Brazil's oil production increasing for decades to come.
Shell's C.E.O., Wael Sawan, said his predictions hinged on rapidly growing Asian markets. That same analysis underpins projections made last year by OPEC, the global oil cartel, that oil demand wouldn't peak until 2045 at the earliest.
The White House is siding with the I.E.A.
"The head of Saudi Aramco said he thought the estimates of demand from the I.E.A. and others were off," John Podesta, President Biden's senior adviser for international climate policy, told reporters on Tuesday. "We don't think so. We think there's a high demand for electrification."
Even as electrification takes off in some sectors of the American economy, U.S. crude oil and liquefied natural gas exports reached record highs in 2023. Wind and solar currently supply less than 4 percent of the world's energy. An even smaller percentage of vehicles produced are partly or fully electric.
Natural gas in particular has seen immense growth and is being incorporated more widely than ever into the global energy trade. Fracking techniques have paved the way for the United States to become the world leader in gas production.
Traditional oil producers in the Persian Gulf - Saudi Aramco among them - are also getting into gas production in a big way, and none more so than Qatar's national oil and gas company, QatarEnergy. Its plans would allow it to overtake the United States in production soon after 2030. At a recent news conference, QatarEnergy's C.E.O., Saad al-Kaabi, told reporters that "we still think there's a big future for gas for at least 50 years forward."
Even if oil demand starts to flatline, companies will still need to make investments to avert a decline in existing oil fields, said Patrick Pouyanné, chief executive of TotalEnergies.
Without those investments, he argued, the energy markets that determine the prices that people pay for all sorts of basic needs would begin to fluctuate wildly. Like the other oil executives, he didn't see renewables and electrification of transport growing fast enough to replace existing fossil fuel demand, let alone in countries with rapidly growing populations and fossil-fuel-dependent industries.
"The natural decline in oil fields is about 4 percent per year, so we will need to continue to invest in oil and gas fields" to maintain current levels of output, he said. "Otherwise, the price will go high and people will be super angry."
#146
Britain on Tuesday announced the swiftest, most ambitious climate target of any industrial economy. In so doing, it not only laid out the economic case for clean energy, but also sought to chart a very different course from its longtime ally across the pond, the United States.
Prime Minister Keir Starmer of Britain told delegates at the international climate talks in Baku, Azerbaijan, that his country would aim to reduce its emissions of planet-heating greenhouse gases by 81 percent by 2035, compared with levels in 1990.
"The race is on for the clean energy jobs of the future, the economy of the future," he said.
The announcement at the talks, known as COP29, hinted at how Britain is trying to position itself in the world as a destination for companies that want to invest in the clean energy transition, especially at a time when President-elect Donald J. Trump has threatened to roll back the tax incentives that had recently made the United States an attractive bet for a range of clean energy companies, from battery makers to wind power firms.
Helen Clarkson, who heads the Climate Group, a nonprofit organization, and works with the private sector in advancing clean energy, said in an emailed statement that Mr. Starmer's administration would now have to lay out a plan for companies seeking to invest. "The economic prize on offer to the U.K. is enormous," Ms. Clarkson said.
Mr. Starmer's left-leaning Labour Party came to office in July with a promise to accelerate the transition away from coal, oil and gas and to produce the country's electricity mainly from renewable energy sources by 2030, a full decade ahead of the European Union.

That 2030 target faces stiff challenges. It requires not only a doubling of wind power on land and a threefold expansion of solar capacity, according to the National Energy System Operator, an independent agency, but also the construction of new power lines to take the energy from where it's produced to where it's used. It also means an estimated $80 billion in investments and requires changes to planning rules.
The system operator's report, published in early November, also said that gas, which supplies more than a fourth of the country's electricity needs now, would have to remain as emergency backup for windless days.
Mr. Starmer's challenge now is to show that his government can carry out such a swift energy transition without hurting Britons' pocketbooks. The government has pledged not to issue new oil and gas exploration licenses in the North Sea, has authorized several large energy infrastructure projects, and has ended what was effectively a ban on new wind projects on land.
Mr. Starmer's remarks at a news conference in Baku hinted at the political sensitivities of the energy transition. "We're not going to start dictating to people what they do," he said, according to Reuters.
Tuesday's announcement ratchets up the country's previous target to reduce emissions by 78 percent. And it follows the recommendation of the country's Climate Change Committee, an independent panel of advisers, which in October advised Mr. Starmer's administration to raise the country's ambitions and argued that they could be "achieved in a way that benefits jobs and the economy."
#147
United Nations climate talks began in Baku, Azerbaijan, on Monday.
The meeting comes just days after the election victory of Donald J. Trump, who has dismissed global warming as a hoax, and at the end of what will probably be the hottest year in recorded history. Extreme weather, much of it made more intense by climate change, is wreaking havoc around the globe.
Against that backdrop, diplomats and heads of state and government from nearly 200 countries are gathering to try to chart a path forward. Here's a concise guide to the meeting.
What is COP29?
It's an annual gathering of the 197 countries that have agreed to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Those countries, the parties to the convention, come together every year and try to update their plans to address climate change.
COP stands for Conference of the Parties. This is the 29th such gathering.
In recent years, COP has grown from a relatively insular meeting of diplomats and policy experts into an enormous event that attracts tens of thousands of attendees, including business executives, the leaders of nonprofit groups and activists.
Want to stay updated on what's happening in Azerbaijan? Sign up for Your Places: Global Update, and we'll send our latest coverage to your inbox.
When is COP29?
The event is scheduled to take place from Nov. 11 to Nov. 22, but the gatherings have a history of going into overtime as negotiators scramble to secure final agreements.
Where is COP29?
Each year's COP is held in a different city. This year, the formal proceedings will take place at the main sports stadium in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan.
The United Nations holds the conference in a different region of the world each year. This year's event was slated for Eastern Europe. But Russia, which has veto power over the site selection, refused to allow COP29 to be held in a European Union country because of the bloc's support for Ukraine.
That left a short list of countries that could host, and the winner was Azerbaijan, a nation of just 10 million sandwiched between Russia and Iran in the Caucasus. A major oil and gas producer, Azerbaijan has enjoyed an economic renaissance in recent years. It has also stifled its critics and jailed activists and journalists.

What is the main goal?
This year, the focus is on finance. That's because building out clean energy systems, making cities more resilient to extreme weather, and transitioning factories and transportation systems away from fossil fuels will require trillions of dollars.
Right now, very little of that money is available at competitive interest rates, especially for poorer countries. In Baku, negotiators hope to develop plans to unlock more financial resources that can be used to promote clean energy and adapt to a warming planet.
Countries will also present their updated national climate action plans, which detail how they plan to reduce emissions. At the end of the conference, negotiators will try to ratify a final agreement that will include new commitments to address climate change.
Who will attend?
Around 80 heads of state and government planned to attend, including the leaders of Barbados, Finland, Greece, Kenya, Spain, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Pakistan.
But many other leaders were expected to skip this year's talks, including President Biden, as well as the leaders of China, India, Brazil, Britain, Germany and France. President-elect Trump was not expected to attend, either.
U.S. officials planning to attend included John Podesta, Mr. Biden's adviser for international climate policy; Jennifer Granholm, the energy secretary; Tom Vilsack, the secretary of agriculture; and Ali Zaidi, the White House national climate adviser.
How will the U.S. election result affect COP29?
The re-election of Mr. Trump will have profound implications for the United States' efforts to reduce its own emissions, and for international efforts to combat climate change.
The president-elect has pledged to roll back U.S. support for clean energy and electric cars, expand fossil fuel production and reduce regulations designed to curtail emissions and pollution.
During his first term, Mr. Trump withdrew the United States from the Paris climate accord, and he has said he would do the same when he returns to the White House. That will reduce pressure on other countries to move swiftly to reduce their emissions and could leave an opening for China to assume leadership of international efforts to address climate change.
How will wars affect COP29?
The wars in the Middle East and Ukraine have made global cooperation more difficult than usual in recent years. Volodymyr Zelensky, the president of Ukraine, is planning to attend. But Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel's prime minister, is not expected to be there.
But more than territorial disputes, the issues in play at COP29 have to do with how much money countries can allocate to accelerating the energy transition, and how swiftly they can reduce planet-warming emissions.
#148
For the second time in less than a decade, the United States is expected to retreat from one of the world's most consequential challenges: limiting the deadly and costly wreckage of climate change.
The election of Donald Trump is not only a setback to the world's ability to rein in dangerous levels of warming. It also signals to other nations that the new leadership of the richest country in the world, which is also history's largest emitter of planet-warming greenhouse gases, is dismissive of the economic opportunities of transitioning to cleaner technologies. In addition it's unlikely to be persuaded to change even as people worldwide are battered by extreme heat, fire and floods.
Mr. Trump, who has called global warming a hoax, is all but certain to pull out of the Paris accord, the global agreement among nations to confront global warming, as he did during his first term as president. He is also likely to reverse a raft of regulations to clean up climate pollution.
In addition to largely isolating the United States on the global climate-diplomacy stage, actions like these would also hand a geopolitical win to the country's main rival, China, which has spent a decade building up a powerful clean-energy industry and is now increasingly exporting it worldwide.
Mr. Trump has also championed increased production of oil and gas, the burning of which produces the greenhouse gases warming the planet. The United States is already the world's biggest oil and gas producer, and new drilling licenses would lock in more greenhouse gas emissions, driving up the severity and frequency of extreme weather.
"It is a moment that calls on us all to exercise our moral duty to protect the planet and millions of vulnerable people from the consequences of pompous climate denial," said Mohamed Adow, a Kenyan who heads an advocacy group called Power Shift Africa.
But the world has also changed since Mr. Trump's first term.
Solar and wind energy are cheaper than ever, and in some cases less expensive than traditional fossil-fuel energy sources. The Biden administration's landmark climate law, the Inflation Reduction Act, has drawn new manufacturing to American shores. While Mr. Trump has disparaged investments in clean-energy technologies, like batteries and electric vehicles, it would be difficult for him to dismantle the Inflation Reduction Act altogether.
Ceres, a nonprofit that works with businesses, said that wholesale rollbacks would "put American investors, businesses, workers, and U.S. economic competitiveness at greater risk."
The Trump victory is likely to embolden right-wing lawmakers in Europe to slow down European Union-wide climate targets, and some European lawmakers were quick to make the economic case for pivoting to clean energy. "The transition to climate neutrality is a cornerstone of our future competitiveness," said Jennifer Morgan, the German climate envoy, speaking of the European Union as well as Germany.
The U.S. vote is certain to loom over the next round of international climate negotiations, set to begin in Baku, in the petrostate of Azerbaijan, next week. Mr. Trump's pledge to pull the United States out of the Paris climate agreement (President Biden rejoined in 2021) would be "disastrous," said Jairam Ramesh, a former environment minister of India. In practical terms, the Paris pullout would mean that the United States would lose its seat at the global negotiating table, and with it the ability to influence some of the most significant debates being hammered out among the nations of the world.
In addition, an oil-championing American President is likely to embolden other petrostates to take up his "drill baby drill" mantra and weaken environmental protections elsewhere, particularly in developing economies. "This may derail focus on renewable-energy projects in emerging markets, incentivizing Nigeria and other oil and gas producers to continue to prioritize oil and gas for short-term economic gain," said Gbenga Oyebode, a lawyer in Nigeria who follows the energy industry.
It could also spur far-right Latin American leaders to "sideline environmental protections, fueling a race toward unchecked exploitation," said Natalie Unterstell, a policy analyst in Brazil. That happened during the first Trump administration. In 2018, far-right politician Jair Bolsonaro became Brazil's president, weakened environmental laws and allowed Amazon deforestation to rise to record levels.
Mr. Trump proposed, on the campaign trail, blanket tariffs on Chinese imports. That is a threat to China as it tries to boost its battered economy. But an American retreat from clean-technology manufacturing would open doors for Chinese exports elsewhere. It would also help promote a Chinese vision of economic development.
In Brazil, for instance, Chinese companies are now setting up electric-vehicle factories there to bypass tariffs on imported cars. A more isolated United States, said Ms. Unterstell, "would increase Chinese trade and investments in the region, but it risks deepening geopolitical rifts."
The Trump win raises a fundamental question for every other country: How important is the United States in preventing climate catastrophe?
"The rest of the world will continue working," said Tasneem Essop, a South African and the head of Climate Action Network, an activist group.
#149
Climate negotiators from Europe, Latin America and some island nations are bracing for the potential return to the world stage of Donald J. Trump, who withdrew the United States from the fight against global warming during his first term.
Nations will press forward without the United States if they must, according to climate negotiators who gathered in New York last week during the United Nations General Assembly. But the first Trump presidency was a setback in the climate fight, and a repeat would slow things down at a critical point when scientists say efforts need to speed up.
"I don't want this to happen, of course," said Laurence Tubiana, who served as France's climate ambassador during the creation of the 2015 Paris agreement, referring to a potential Trump victory. "But I think there will be a sentiment that we have to double down on the Paris agreement framework. I think everybody's preparing for that."
The night before Donald J. Trump won the presidency in 2016, an adviser to developing nations in global climate negotiations declared, "No one believes Trump can win, so no real Plan B here!"
After he beat Hillary Clinton to win the White House, Mr. Trump kept the world guessing for months about whether the United States would remain a global partner on climate change. Many leaders reserved early judgment, hopeful that people like Mr. Trump's daughter, Ivanka, would convince him to stay in. They didn't.
Mr. Trump, who has dismissed global warming as a "hoax," made the United States the first and only country to withdraw from the 2015 Paris agreement that calls on countries to cut the pollution from oil, gas and coal that is dangerously heating the planet. The Trump administration also worked with major oil producers like Saudi Arabia to weaken global pledges around fossil fuels. President Biden rejoined the Paris agreement on his first day in office.
With the next U.N. climate talks scheduled to begin in Azerbaijan on Nov. 10, just days after the U.S. election, many are feeling a sense of déjà vu.
"It won't catch anyone by surprise if the first thing that he does is take the United States out of the Paris agreement," said Christiana Figueres, who led the U.N. climate change body when the accord was developed. "Been there, done that."
Some leaders acknowledged there was little countries could actually do if Mr. Trump once again withdrew from the Paris agreement.
Justin Trudeau, the prime minister of Canada, said last year that if Mr. Trump were to return to office, it would "slow down the world's progress" on climate change.
According to three negotiators who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, there are talks to ensure that if Mr. Trump wins, multiple countries will emphasize that they are committed to the fight against global warming.
"The rest of the world will have to communicate immediately," Ms. Tubiana said. "We will not be taken flat-footed like we were last time."
Several leaders insisted that the world will make progress in transitioning away from fossil fuels regardless of Mr. Trump.
"What we have now is actually unstoppable," Ms. Figueres said. "The direction is unstoppable. What we're all focused on is scale and speed, but not direction."
Sandra Guzmán Luna, who negotiates on climate finance on behalf of Latin American and Caribbean nations, cautioned against putting too much emphasis on American influence. While few countries are on track to meet the emissions goals they set in Paris or deliver the financing needed to help steer the world toward clean energy, most governments are trying to speed that work, she said.
President Biden has pledged to cut emissions from the United States by at least 50 percent from 2005 levels by the end of this decade. That target would become moot in a second Trump administration.
But some states would continue efforts to cut emissions while expanding wind, solar and other renewable energy, as they did in 2017 when a coalition of governors, mayors and businesses declared they were "still in" and working toward the Paris goals.
"The message is: Don't give up the ship under any circumstances," said Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, a Democrat who worked with the coalition.
"If Trump is elected, he will find some way to throw sand in the gears of progress, there's no question about that," Mr. Inslee said. "But progress will continue in states. He won't be able to totally eliminate everything that we've done."
Vice President Kamala Harris, Mr. Trump's Democratic opponent, supports climate measures.
At climate talks last year in Dubai, she said global warming required urgent action. "The clock is no longer just ticking, it is banging," she said. "And we must make up for lost time."
As vice president, Ms. Harris helped pass the largest federal investment in climate and clean energy initiatives. Her economic plan calls for speeding the production and deployment of renewable power, though it includes few specifics.
#150
The world's two most powerful countries, the United States and China, are meeting this week in Washington to talk about climate change. And also their relationship issues.
In an ideal world, where the clean energy transition was the top priority, they would be on friendlier terms. Maybe affordable Chinese-made electric vehicles would be widely sold in America, instead of being viewed as an economic threat. Or there would be less need to dig a lithium mine at an environmentally sensitive site in Nevada, because lithium, which is essential for batteries, could be bought worry-free from China, which controls the world's supply.
Instead, in the not-ideal real world, the United States is balancing two competing goals. The Biden administration wants to cut planet-warming emissions by encouraging people to buy things like EVs and solar panels, but it also wants people to buy American, not Chinese. Its concern is that Chinese dominance of the global market for these essential technologies would harm the U.S. economy and national security.
Those competing goals will be at the center of talks on Wednesday and Thursday as the Biden Administration's top climate envoy, John Podesta, meets for the first time with his counterpart from Beijing, Liu Zhenmin, in Washington.
Trade tensions are likely to loom over their meetings.
The flood of Chinese exports, particularly in solar panels and other green-energy technology, has become a real sore spot for the Biden administration as it tries to spur the same industries on American soil. Mr. Podesta has sharply criticized China for having "distorted the global market for clean energy products like solar, batteries and critical minerals."
Not only that, he has set up a task force to explore how to limit imports from countries that have high carbon footprints, a practice that he called "carbon dumping." That was considered a veiled reference to China.
It remains unclear whether the Biden administration would impose a fee on products imported from high-emissions countries. The idea has been embraced by a handful of influential Republican lawmakers as a way to protect American manufacturers from Chinese competition.
China, for its part, has complained to the World Trade Organization about U.S. green subsidies. Mr. Podesta has called that complaint "beyond ironic" since the Chinese government has invested heavily in its own manufacturing sector.
Mr. Liu has said that, without Chinese technology, clean energy costs would rise, and that would slow down the global pivot away from the burning of fossil fuels, the main producer of the greenhouse gas emissions that are warming the planet. "We need to maintain low costs, otherwise nobody is going to be able to afford the energy transition," he told Bloomberg recently.
Both men are new to their current jobs, but hardly novices. Mr. Podesta was in charge of the climate-law rollout before he took on the global role, following the retirement of John F. Kerry. Mr. Liu is a longtime diplomat who served as a United Nations official before becoming President Xi Jinping's top climate envoy.
The United States isn't alone in warning against the flood of Chinese green goods.
The European Union is investigating whether Chinese-made electric vehicles have benefited from unfair subsidies, and Mr. Xi got an earful on a visit to Paris this week when the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, said at a news conference on Monday that Europe "cannot absorb massive overproduction of Chinese industrial goods flooding its market."
China dominates the production of solar panels, wind turbines, batteries and electric cars and buses, and also processes most of the minerals that go into clean energy technologies. And Chinese companies have found workarounds to trade barriers in the West, including by sending products through indirect routes that avoid tariffs on goods that come directly from China.

That presents an acute dilemma for the Biden administration. It has staked its global reputation on an ambitious climate agenda, aiming to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, compared with 2005 levels. It's also trying to build, practically from scratch, a domestic renewable energy industry.
Competing with China on low-carbon manufacturing at this point is a losing battle, said Li Shuo, who heads the China climate hub at the Asia Society Policy Institute in Washington. "It is hard to see how the U.S. will build a whole solar supply chain in time to respond to climate change, or how solar products made in the U.S. could ever be cost-competitive," he said. It is not "the fight the U.S. should pick, nor one that it can win."
This new great power rivalry presents two risks for the United States. Shunning a rival's factories too much can raise costs and slow down the clean energy transition. But relying too much on a rival country's factories raises national security concerns and can jeopardize American industries and jobs.
For instance, a flood of cheap Chinese cars would threaten the U.S. auto industry and a large, unionized and politically influential base of autoworkers. (President Biden wooed them openly by walking their picket line during a recent strike.)
Beyond trade, Beijing and Washington are at odds over many things, including the status of Taiwan, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and, not least, fundamental differences over the value of democracy.
"In a world free from geopolitics, if China wanted to supply the world with cheap and plentiful clean energy inputs, from solar panels to critical minerals, it would benefit us all by enabling the fastest energy transition possible," said Meghan O'Sullivan, who directs the Geopolitics of Energy Project at the Harvard Kennedy School. "But in the real world, the security imperative not to be overly dependent on China is leading countries, from the United States to India, to duplicate supply chains in solar and critical minerals, which can slow down the energy transition and make it more expensive."
The outcry against Chinese exports comes at a time when politicians in this country face a challenge that's foreign to politicians in China: elections.
In his re-election bid, Mr. Biden has highlighted his administration's renewable energy investments. He has made it a point to visit new factories supported by government incentives, a clear effort to signal to voters his efforts to revive American manufacturing.
Clean energy investments have surged since the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act in 2022. It began to unlock $370 billion in incentives to speed the nation's transition away from fossil fuels, with expanded tax breaks for battery production and solar-panel manufacturing. That, along with the Chips and Science Act, which set aside $39 billion in incentives for chip producers to invest in the United States, was aimed squarely at reducing dependence on China while bolstering U.S. manufacturing.
An analysis published on Tuesday by the private research group E2 found that 300 renewable energy projects had been announced since the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act. More than half were in Republican-controlled states.
#151
Arizona voters go to the polls, they have more control over their state's power plants and climate policies than they might realize.
This year three of the five seats are up for grabs on the Arizona Corporation Commission, which regulates electric utilities. The commission has authority over how electricity is generated, among other things, and what customers pay.
In recent years, it has taken steps toward rolling back a clean-energy mandate passed by a previous Republican-led board. It has also made it harder to build community solar in a state renowned for its sunniness, its critics say, and easier to build new fossil-fuel-burning power plants.
These boards exist in states nationwide, and while most are appointed, similarly contentious races playing out in states like Louisiana and Montana, where they're debating the future of coal power, which is particularly dirty, and what role natural gas, another fossil fuel, should have.
"It's a fourth branch of government that nobody knows about who's in your pocket every day," said Robert Burns, a Republican who served on Arizona's commission for eight years.
Starting two decades ago, the Republican-controlled commission had encouraged a transition to renewable energy based on simple economics: Renewables were getting cheaper than fossil fuels. It initially required utilities it regulates to become 15-percent renewable by 2025 and later, during Mr. Burns's tenure, he sought to eliminate greenhouse-gas emissions from power plants by 2050.
That could have made Arizona even more of a clean-energy leader. Today, it ranks as the fifth largest solar generator in the United States.
But utilities have struggled to transition away from fossil fuels.
In 2014, the state's largest utility, Arizona Public Services and its parent company Pinnacle West Capital Corp., paid more than $10 million to help elect two former commissioners. In the years since, the commission has become friendlier to fossil fuels, according to critics who include former Republican members. One current member was a registered lobbyist for a natural gas company.
The commission has begun working to weaken state policies on renewable energy, its critics say.
"It's almost a dereliction of duty for any public-utility commissioner to not be implementing and requiring renewable-energy usage," said Arizona's attorney general, Kris Mayes, a former Republican on the commission who switched parties in 2019 and is now a Democrat. "They don't seem to understand economics."
The changes in the makeup of Arizona's utility board are an example of the long-running trend of interest groups turning their attention to regional or local elections, whether statehouse seats or local school boards, in pursuit of political goals.
In a statement, Nicole Garcia, a spokeswoman for the commission, said, " The commission is very happy to report that the citizens of Arizona are receiving some of the most reliable and cost-effective energy in the country." She said the commission doesn't favor fossil fuels, and "recognizes the need for continued use of natural gas resources" in order "to maintain reliability as the transition to renewable energy, battery storage and potentially new technology occurs."
While Arizona suffers from extreme heat and a dwindling water supply, partly worsened by climate change, the state has tapped into federal climate legislation to help fund changes to its grid that would make it cleaner. Arizona has received more than $11 billion in federal tax incentives and investments for electric-vehicle charging stations and battery production.
There is potentially up to $24 billion more in federal funding, much of it in solar energy, according to Jacob Corvidae of the Rocky Mountain Institute, an energy think tank. "Arizona is a top 10 state in terms of pulling in Inflation Reduction Act dollars," he said, "and it's punching above its weight, but it's not guaranteed to continue."
Ms. Mayes, the attorney general, served as a Republican on the utility commission from 2003 through 2010. She said that members didn't really talk about climate change, but that they wanted utilities to diversify their energy sources, reduce pollution and lower costs for ratepayers. She helped pass Arizona's renewable-energy standard in 2008.
The current commission has begun evaluating whether to repeal that standard. Renewables currently make up about 16 percent of generated electricity in Arizona, more than half of that solar.
The current commission has also limited incentives on community solar, according to critics like Autumn Johnson of the Arizona Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group. "It used to be that you could be a Republican and still value solar for resiliency or energy independence, or because you favored competition," she said.
In response, Ryan Anderson, an adviser to a commission member, said, "Certain industry groups are upset that their proposals are now being appropriately scrutinized and they aren't able to profit from the pockets of ratepayers like they perhaps once did."
After the 2014 election in which around $10 million was spent by a utility and its parent company to help elect board members, Arizona Public Services said it would no longer do so. "The company has not engaged in commission elections in more than eight years and has publicly committed to not engage," said Jill Hanks, speaking for the company.
This year, five of the six major-party candidates for the commission have agreed to run under Arizona's clean-election finance law, which provides them with state funding if they swear off private funding and raise a certain amount of money through $5 donations from individuals. Under this system, political action committees can still spend on advertising, but they can't communicate or coordinate with a candidate.
Still, Mr. Burns and other observers say utility rates are too high, and they aren't persuaded that the commission is impartial.
In 2022, two new commissioners, Kevin Thompson and Nick Myers, were part of a joint election campaign directed by Mr. Thompson's sister, Katharine Fredriksen, who had previously worked in fossil fuel industries, most recently as president for CONSOL Energy, a natural gas and coal-mining company in Pennsylvania.
Mr. Thompson also previously worked in the fossil fuel industry, at Southwest Gas, as a business-development manager and registered lobbyist for more than a decade. Ms. Fredriksen is now the policy adviser for Jim O'Connor, the chairman of the utility board.
The commission is currently supporting one of the state's largest fossil fuel projects, new natural gas units for Arizona Public Services. "Natural gas is an essential reliability partner to the large quantities of solar and battery energy storage we continue to add to our system," said Ms. Hanks of A.P.S.
The commission spokeswoman, Ms. Garcia, said, "The commission takes a balanced approach to ensure that we do not have rolling brownouts like nearby states and that utility rates remain just and reasonable."
Joshua Polacheck, a retired foreign-service officer running for election to the commission as a Democrat, said decisions like approving these new units were "locking in the market for decades to come."
Both Mr. Thompson and Mr. Myers will remain on the commission until they're up for re-election in 2026. One Republican is seeking re-election, while two other commissioners (the sole Democrat, and Mr. O'Connor) aren't seeing re-election.
The top Republican candidate is Rachel Walden, a school board member who sued the state's largest school district over its support of transgender students. She, like her fellow Republican candidate Rene Lopez, has questioned the science of climate change. During an interview at a 2023 festival for Turning Point, a conservative nonprofit, Ms. Walden called climate change "a ruse" meant to prop up China.
The commission also faces a legal challenge. Three Republican members, plus Ms. Fredriksen and the commission's executive director, Douglas Clark, are named in a discrimination lawsuit by Robin Mitchell, a Black lawyer who spent five years as general counsel for the commission. In the lawsuit, filed in May, she says she was demoted and replaced by Thomas Van Flein, the former chief of staff of a Republican Congressman, according to the suit. Ms. Mitchell alleges he was paid almost $30,000 more than her salary at the time of her alleged demotion.

Mr. Anderson said Mr. Thompson "denies all allegations made by the former employee baselessly leveled against him, and looks forward to legal proceedings that will exonerate his name." The commission also denied the allegations in a statement, including that it "does not and will not discriminate based on race or any other category."
Mr. Burns, the former chairman, said that he votes Republican and doesn't believe in the science of climate change, but that he would have a hard time voting for his fellow party members on the commission, calling their choices misaligned with a free market. "The decisions that they've made, the actions they've taken, I really don't believe is supportive of the ratepayer," he said.
Meanwhile Arizona, the state with the highest number of heat-related deaths in the country, is getting hotter. Phoenix had 113 consecutive days this year where the temperature hit or surpassed 100 degrees Fahrenheit.
"It's like a frog-boiling-in-water situation," said Nick Arnold, Arizona's state director for Climate Cabinet, a nonprofit focused on local elections. "You don't realize how much worse it's getting until it's too late."
#152
Wind turbines generated more electricity than coal-burning power plants across the United States in March and April, outstripping the dirtiest fuel for two consecutive months for the first time, according to the Energy Information Administration.
The crossover in wind and coal generation is the latest milestone in the country's energy transition as renewables rise and coal declines. In recent years, breakthroughs in technology have lowered the cost of building new wind turbines, solar panels and battery storage, helping renewable energy replace coal as the cheapest power source in many places.
Renewable energy has also gotten a boost from tax credits awarded under the Inflation Reduction Act, the climate law Congress passed in 2022. And states have passed regulations mandating that utilities transition away from fossil fuels, particularly coal. More than 20 states - including Minnesota, North Carolina and Nebraska - have enacted legislation that requires utilities to get all their electricity from clean, carbon-free sources by 2050 or before.
Those three factors - shifts in the economics of energy, federal tax credits and state mandates - have led to explosive growth in renewable energy in recent years, said Timothy Fox, a managing director at ClearView Energy Partners, a consulting firm.
"When project developers are considering which resources to deploy in the grid, they look 20, 30, 40 years down the line," Mr. Fox said. "From that perspective, it's hard to envision building a coal plant today."
Environmentalists have also focused on the economics of coal-fired power plants in recent years, a strategy that contributed to the closing of all coal plants in New England. In Michigan and Louisiana, climate groups successfully persuaded state regulators to stop utilities from recouping their losses from burning coal by passing the costs to customers.
Coal plants have retired at a rapid pace over the past 25 years, the Energy Information Administration data shows. From 2000 to 2024, total coal capacity in the United States nearly halved, while wind capacity increased by more than 60 times. Natural gas capacity nearly tripled during that time as it started to replace coal from around 2005, when the fracking boom made large quantities of cheap natural gas available.
In April 2024, fossil fuels still accounted for the majority of electricity generation in the United States, with natural gas generating 39 percent of all power and coal generating 12 percent. Nuclear power followed fossil fuels, supplying 18.5 percent of electricity. Wind generated 15 percent while solar was responsible for 6 percent.
Analysts expect wind energy will grow to provide around 35 percent of all electricity needs in the United States and Canada by 2050, said Cory Arce Gessert, a vice president of project development at DNV, an energy consulting firm.
"Even five years ago, you could see wind as a little supplement to the energy system," Ms. Gessert said. "And now we are seeing it as a major component, a necessary component."
In the United States, wind produces the most electricity in spring and the least in the summer.
April has consistently been the month where coal generation falls below renewable energy as some coal plant operators turn off their generators because electricity demand tends to drop in the spring. Coal use typically rises in winter and summer months when power demand spikes for heating and air-conditioning.
https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/15/climate/wind-power-coal.html?searchResultPosition=17
#153
A few weeks ago, I joined a small group of reporters for a wide-ranging conversation with Bill Gates about climate change, its causes and potential solutions. When the topic turned to the issue of just how much energy artificial intelligence was using, Gates was surprisingly sanguine.
"Let's not go overboard on this," he said during a media briefing on the sidelines of an event he was hosting in London.
A.I. data centers represent a relatively small additional load on the grid, Gates said. What's more, he predicted that insights gleaned from A.I. would deliver gains in efficiency that would more than make up for that additional demand.
In short, Gates said, the stunning rise of A.I. will not stand in the way of combating climate change. "It's not like, 'Oh no, we can't do it because we're addicted to doing chat sessions,'" he said.
That's an upbeat assessment from a billionaire with a vested interest in the matter. Gates is a big-time climate investor, and is the former head of Microsoft and remains a major stockholder in the company, which is at the center of the A.I. revolution.
And while it's too early to draw a definitive conclusion on the issue, a few things are already clear: A.I. is having a profound impact on energy demand around the world, it's often leading to an uptick in planet-warming emissions, and there's no end in sight.
A.I. data centers have a big appetite for electricity. The so-called graphic processing units, or G.P.U.s, used to train large language models and respond to ChatGPT queries, require more energy than your average microchip and give off more heat.
With more data centers coming online almost every week, projections about how much energy will be required to power the A.I. boom are soaring.
One peer-reviewed study suggested A.I. could make up 0.5 percent of worldwide electricity use by 2027, or roughly what Argentina uses in a year. Analysts at Wells Fargo suggested that U.S. electricity demand could jump 20 percent by 2030, driven in part to A.I.
And Goldman Sachs predicted that data centers would account for 8 percent of U.S. energy usage in 2030, up from just 3 percent today.
"It's truly astronomical potential load growth," said Ben Inskeep, the program director at Citizens Action Coalition, a consumer watchdog group based in Indiana that is tracking the energy impact of data centers.
Microsoft, Google, Amazon and Meta have all recently announced plans to build new data centers in Indiana, developments that Inskeep said would strain the grid.
"We don't have enough power to meet the projected needs of data centers over the next five to 10 years," he said. "We would need a massive build-out of additional resources."
Tech giants are scrambling to get a grip on their energy usage. For a decade now, those same four companies have been at the forefront of corporate efforts to embrace sustainability.
But in a matter of months, the energy demands from A.I. have complicated that narrative. Google's emissions last year were 48 percent higher than in 2019, largely because of data centers and the rise of A.I. Microsoft's emissions also jumped for the same reasons, up 29 percent last year from 2020. And Meta's emissions jumped 66 percent from 2021 to 2023.
In statements, Google and Microsoft both said that A.I. would ultimately prove crucial to addressing the climate crisis, and that they were working to reduce their carbon footprints and bring more clean energy online. Amazon pointed to a statement detailing its sustainability efforts.
There are two ways for tech companies to meet the demand: tap the existing grid, or build new power plants. Each poses its own challenges.
In West Virginia, coal-fired power plants that had been scheduled to retire are being kept online to meet the energy needs of new data centers across the border in Virginia.
And across the country, utilities are building new natural-gas infrastructure to support data centers. Goldman Sachs anticipates that "incremental data center power consumption in the U.S. will drive around 3.3 billion cubic feet per day of new natural gas demand by 2030, which will require new pipeline capacity to be built."
At the same time, the tech giants are working to secure a lot more power to fuel the growth of A.I.
Microsoft is working on a $10 billion plan to develop renewable energy to power data centers. Amazon has said it used 100 percent clean energy last year, though experts have questioned whether the company's accounting was too lenient.
All that new low carbon power is great. But when the tech companies themselves are consuming all that electricity to power new A.I. data centers, pushing up energy demand, it isn't making the grid overall any cleaner.
The energy demands from A.I. are only getting more intense. Microsoft and OpenAI are planning on building a $100 billion data center, according to reports. Initial reporting suggests it may require five gigawatts of power, or roughly the equivalent of five nuclear reactors.
And at the same time companies are building more data centers, many of the chips at the heart of the A.I. revolution are getting more and more power hungry. Nvidia, the leader in A.I. chips, recently unveiled new products that would draw exponentially more energy from the grid.
The A.I. boom is generating big profits for some companies. And it may yet deliver breakthroughs that help reduce emissions. But, at least for now, data centers are doing more harm than good for the climate.
"It's definitely very concerning as we're trying to transition our current grid to renewable energy," Inskeep said. "Adding a massive amount of new load on top of that poses a grave threat to that transition."
Four things to know
Hot nights are fueling wildfires in California. Climate change is causing more fires to burn in the nighttime, grow bigger and last longer, challenging the fire teams trying to control them, a new study found. In recent weeks, more than 3,500 wildfires have erupted across California. Tens of thousands of people have had to flee their homes.
BP predicts global oil demand will peak next year, Reuters reported. The projection is part of the oil giant's annual energy outlook, which was published on Wednesday. According to the analysis, carbon emissions from burning fossil fuels are set to stop rising in the middle of the decade but will fall too slowly for the world to meet its net-zero target by 2050.
China is building two-thirds of the world's wind and solar capacity, according to a new study reviewed by The Guardian. Between March 2023 and March 2024, China installed more solar than the rest of the world combined. The study, by Global Energy Monitor, a nonprofit group that tracks energy projects, adds to expectations that China's greenhouse gas emissions may have peaked last year.
New limits on disaster funds for flood plains. The Federal Emergency Management Agency announced on Wednesday that it would take new steps to ensure that the structures it funds - including schools, hospitals, police stations, libraries, sewage treatment plants and bridges - were built in a way that prevents flood damage.
#154
Were Heathcliff to roam the blustery moors around Wuthering Heights today, he might be interrupted by a ping on his cellphone saying something like this: The wind is raging, so power is cheap. It's a good time to plug in the car.
OK. So the 18th-century literary occupants of these windswept hills received no such pings.
But Martin and Laura Bradley do. They live in Halifax, an old mill town below the wuthering, or windy, heights of West Yorkshire. And when a squall kicks up, producing a surplus of electricity from wind turbines on the moor, their phones light up with a notification, like one that informed them of a 50 percent discount one Saturday in October.
The Bradleys plugged in their electric Kia, started a load of laundry and set to work on their most delectable energy-guzzling project: the Christmas fruitcake, which is made weeks in advance of the holidays. "As this takes four hours to cook in my electric oven, this is the perfect timing!" Laura Bradley said.
The phone alerts to the Bradleys and thousands of other people are part of Britain's ambitious plan to shift the nation's electricity system away from burning fossil fuels altogether by decade's end. That would be five years faster than the United States, and a full decade ahead of the European Union, effectively making it the most ambitious target of any major industrialized economy.
That means building many more solar and wind projects, as well as loads of batteries and transmission lines. It also requires persuading millions of Britons of the benefits - most importantly to their pocketbooks.
That's where the Wuthering Heights pings come in.
ImageWest Yorkshire, where Octopus runs nine turbines. "We've got these famously bleak, windy hills," the company's chief executive said.
Octopus Energy, the country's biggest electricity supplier, runs nine wind turbines on those hills. When it's gusty, and power is abundant, it offers discounts. The Bradleys say they save upward of 400 pounds ($517) a year. Octopus says it not only attracts customers but also persuades communities that they benefit from new energy infrastructure.
"We've got these famously bleak, windy hills," said Greg Jackson, the company's chief executive. "We wanted to demonstrate to people that wind electricity is cheaper, but only when you use it when it's windy."
It's one of several creative experiments as Britain tries to persuade a wary public that ditching fossil fuels can improve their lives.
Ripple Energy, a London startup, invites people to buy a piece of a wind turbine in exchange for discount energy bills. In the town of Grimsby, a local cooperative invests in small solar projects that reduce bills for charities nearby. In North London, a developer has teamed up with Octopus to sell homes that run entirely on electricity - and whose occupants get free electricity for at least five years.
Britain's 2030 ambition is a test of how quickly a rich country can build a new energy system. It is all the more notable for happening in a country that birthed the Industrial Revolution, ultimately producing the climate crisis that afflicts the world today.
Hitting the target faces many challenges.

There's pressure on the government to enable developers to quickly build things like transmission lines. There's pressure from communities to not spoil the countryside. And there's pressure to overhaul regulations so that communities near the new infrastructure - Scotland for instance, which produces most of the country's offshore wind - can get lower electric bills and in turn attract new energy-intensive businesses.
Natural gas still accounts for a third of the electricity mix. Replacing that with renewables in five years is no small feat. One recent analysis concluded that solar and wind projects currently planned would make up less than half of the electricity mix by 2030 without an enormous infusion of capital.
An oil man turns to batteries
Signs of the transition are in plain view. Wind turbines roar like dragons off the Scottish coast. Solar panels line the rooftops of football stadiums. And on an industrial patch of West Yorkshire, where for decades, three enormous power plants burned enormous piles of coal, a former oil worker, Ricky Harker, has been installing giant batteries.
There are 136 batteries in all, each the size of a tractor-trailer and owned by SSE, an energy giant that produces a lot of wind power in the North Sea.
The batteries are designed to harness wind and solar power and store it until its needed in the grid. "It's part of the jigsaw," said Mr. Harker, the project's manager. "Something we can't do without."
Mr. Harker embodies the transition. His grandfather was a coal miner. His father worked in a coal-burning steel plant. Mr. Harker, too, apprenticed there and then worked at an oil refinery, before an explosion killed five co-workers and literally drove him out.
"I've never run so fast in my life," he said. "The next day I spoke to the police, grabbed my bags and left oil and gas."
While the government's emphasis is on accelerating renewables, it has no plans to leave behind oil and gas anytime soon. British homes are mainly heated with gas, and for the foreseeable future, gas will remain in the electricity mix as a reserve. The government has said it would allow already approved North Sea oil and gas projects to proceed, but not issue new permits.
In September, Britain closed its last coal-burning power plant. Its new Labour Party-led government has lifted restrictions on onshore wind projects, created a new entity called Great British Energy to invest 2 billion pounds in renewables and cleared the way for several stalled projects including a 2,000-acre solar farm, Mallard Pass, which local communities complained would destroy farmland.
"If you want to get control over your energy security, and if you want energy independence, the way to do it is with clean energy," Ed Miliband, the energy secretary, said in an interview.
Clean energy isn't always popular.
There is opposition to a proposed wind farm near the Bradleys' town, too. Campaigners say it would disturb vast swaths of peatland, which has tremendous value because peat essentially locks away planet-warming carbon dioxide. "It would almost counteract its own benefit," Laura Bradley said.
The new energy curator
To persuade people of the benefits, Chris Stark, the government's adviser for the 2030 climate target, has been studying magazine advertisements from the 1960s. That was the last time Britain built a new energy system, laying down transmission lines across meadows and moors that the country relies on still.
The old ads are "really clear about why we're doing it, why it's good for the country, why it's good for your kids, and that it's not going to be a huge imposition on you," he said. "It's the sort of thing that we'll need to do again."
This month the government plans to outline what will need to be built where. Mr. Stark says that projects already planned are sufficient to meet the 2030 target. The challenge, he said, is "to do something which is genuinely new, which is to get our hands dirty and, in a sense, curate that energy system."
But it will require more than building new things. It will require "a more flexible, smarter energy system," Mr. Stark said.
The 'zero bills' inventor
A big part of that is tweaking the electricity system from the inside, which is what Greg Jackson of Octopus does, using software to profit from the peaks and troughs of power. Mr. Stark calls him the Willy Wonka of the energy transition, after the quirky chocolate-factory owner in the famous children's book.
Mr. Jackson's latest invention is the "zero bills" home. Residents pay nothing for light and heat for five years. And yet, Octopus still makes money.
How? The houses usually generate more electricity than they use, storing surplus in batteries. Octopus can sell that energy to the grid when demand and prices are high. (The free electricity doesn't apply to car-charging, which takes a lot of power.)
Fraser Jackson, 71, a zero-bills homeowner in the London suburb of Walthamstow, said he didn't have a clue how it all added up, except that the math worked for him.
Fraser Jackson at his home outside London. "That was a definite draw, the free electricity," he said.
On his roof sit solar panels that generate most of his power. On the patio sits an electric heat pump. In his utility closet sits a battery and a computer that shows him, if he cares to know, whether he's drawing power from the grid. It helps that the house is built with thick walls and triple-paned windows.
"That was a definite draw, the free electricity," he said.
There are only a few dozen zero-bills homes so far. Octopus aims to have 100,000 by 2030 by partnering with builders. Buyers get 10 years of free electricity.
"You've now got a highly variable system of electricity - wind, solar - replacing the old world," said Mr. Jackson, the Octopus executive. "But we don't have a pricing system to reflect this."
He is lobbying to change that. Step one, he says: Let sellers like Octopus offer lower prices to people living near new energy sources.
Persuading Grimsby
Climate change is a hard sell in a place like Grimsby, a former fishing town where jobs are tough to come by, aside from the offshore oil and gas industry.
Which is why Vicky Dunn, a longtime environmentalist, skipped the environmental pitch and asked two local secondhand shops, a youth shelter and a hospice if they would like to bring down their electricity bills by putting solar panels on their rooftops.
They did.
Several neighbors were keen to help. They loaned Ms. Dunn's group bits of money to invest in the panels. The nonprofits saved on their energy bills, and the investors (many had put in as little as 100 pounds) earned 5 percent interest.
The intangible benefit, Ms. Dunn said, was winning over the community about the low cost of solar. "The energy transition is needed. But you have to take people with you," she said.
The Grimsby cooperative is tiny. Altogether, its panels are able to produce less than 1 megawatt of electricity.
But it is one of dozens investing in renewable projects. One in Wales runs a small hydropower project providing cheap power to homes. Another in Bristol has put solar panels on the rooftops of local businesses, including a bowling alley.
Cooperatives like these currently own nearly 400 megawatts of renewable electricity capacity, enough to power 228,000 homes, according to a national nonprofit that tracks it. They are likely to grow in the coming years, with a cash infusion expected from Great British Energy, the new entity designed to accelerate renewables.
From Ms. Dunn's vantage point, the strength of these local projects is to show what's possible. "It gives people something practical to do with the threat of climate change, instead of worrying," she said. "Or moaning."
#155
When Marcus Jones and his business partner, Akunna Olumba, set out to open a pizzeria in Detroit, they spoke with banks about their green vision: solar panels on the roof, an energy-efficient tankless water heater and a rooftop system to capture storm water.
"The lenders thought we were crazy," Mr. Jones said. Traditional banks were skeptical that such investments would yield a return, and few had ever issued loans for clean energy or efficiency measures. They told the restaurateurs that it simply was not done.
Instead, the pair connected with a so-called green bank, one of a growing number of entities that lend money to businesses and individuals for equipment or technology that reduces the pollution driving climate change.
The movement will get a $20 billion infusion from the Biden administration on Thursday in what Vice President Kamala Harris calls "the largest investment in financing for community-based climate projects in our nation's history."
The Environmental Protection Agency plans to award grants ranging from $500 million to $6.9 billion to eight nonprofits. The organizations will in turn use the money to offer loans to businesses, homeowners and others to spur clean energy across the country, particularly in low-income neighborhoods.
Loans could be for something as small as helping one family purchase an electric induction stove or as ambitious as helping to build energy-efficient low-income housing.
"We're putting an unprecedented $20 billion to work in communities that for too long have been shut out of resources to lower costs and benefit from clean technology solutions," Michael S. Regan, the administrator of the E.P.A., said in a statement.
Republicans, however, have slammed the money as a "greendoggle" and said that the E.P.A. is not prepared to oversee such a large program. House Republicans passed a bill in March that would repeal the greenhouse gas reduction program.
President Biden threatened to veto the measure if it were to reach his desk, and it has not come for a vote in the Senate. Representative Gary Palmer, the Alabama congressman who wrote the bill, called the E.P.A. initiative a "Green New Deal slush fund" that "raises many concerns about lack of accountability and oversight."
The Biden administration is working to quickly distribute money from the program before January 2025, when a future administration or a Republican-controlled Congress could eliminate the funds.
The administration estimated the program would attract about $150 billion in private capital, or about $7 for every federal dollar spent. The awardees have committed to collectively cut or avoid up to 40 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions in the next seven years. That would be the equivalent of taking about 9.5 million cars off the road for a year.
Mr. Regan said the new network of clean energy financing would "unleash tens of thousands of clean technology projects like putting solar on small businesses, electrifying affordable housing, providing EV loans for young families, and countless others."
The $20 billion comes from the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, President Biden's signature climate law, which included $27 billion for a program known as the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund.
The biggest grants under the program include $6.97 billion to a coalition called Climate United Fund, which is led by Calvert Impact, a nonprofit investment firm. The Coalition for Green Capital, a nonprofit founded by Reed Hundt, a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, was awarded $5 billion. Power Forward America, which is made up of five climate and housing organizations, was awarded $2 billion.
The idea for the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund goes back more than two decades, when a group of financiers proposed the idea of a national bank that could attract private investment by pumping public money into things like electric vehicle charging station networks, community solar projects and other renewable energy adoption.
The E.P.A. program is similar to that concept, but instead of one national bank, the agency is funding the different nonprofit groups, which will act as lenders.
"This has been a long road to get here," said Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, who introduced legislation in 2009 to create a green bank.
Mr. Van Hollen said he expects the funding will make a significant difference in low-income communities where residents may be less likely to take advantage of federal tax incentives that are available for electric vehicles or certain home appliances, like induction stoves and heat pumps, because they lack the upfront cash to make the purchase.
"We don't want any community to be left behind in the transition to the clean energy economy," he said.
One grant recipient, Rewiring America, currently does work in communities like De Soto, Ga., a rural area where it has made loans and awarded grants to help about 78 families upgrade appliances and weatherize homes.
Mildred Carter, 73, said when the water heater in her De Soto home gave out last year she thought, "Oh my God, not this now on top of everything else, I can't afford a new water heater." Retired after 21 years working at Walmart, Ms. Carter said she went without hot water for two months before she found Rewiring America and applied for a grant for a free electric heat pump and installation.
Ms. Carter said she is concerned about clean energy and climate change. But when it came to her heat pump, she said, "At the time I didn't care, I just wanted to make sure I had hot water."
In Detroit, Mr. Jones and Ms. Olumba's restaurant, Detroit Pizza Bar, has been open for two years and is the first Black-owned pizzeria in the city's Livernois Six-Mile area. It also is the first sit-down restaurant in the area in more than three decades.
Mr. Jones said the money he borrowed from Michigan Saves, a nonprofit, to purchase solar panels and energy efficiency measures has more than paid off. He said his customers only notice the solar panels and rooftop rain barrels when he points them out. "They're coming for pizza," he said.
Vice President Harris and Mr. Regan were expected to announce the awards in Charlotte, N.C.
#156
Nations at COP29 Climate Summit Agree to Annual $300 Billion Pledge
Delegates from developing countries described the deal's financial target, $300 billion per year by 2035, as lacking the ambition needed to help their governments combat climate change.
"The amount that is proposed to be mobilized is abysmally poor. It's a paltry sum. It is not something that will enable conducive climate action. And I'm sorry to say that we cannot accept it." "Should I remind us of what the convention says? That it noted that developed countries had the largest share of historical and current global emissions. If we walk back home with $300 [billion dollars] and we say that the developed countries are taking the lead, this is an insult to what the convention says."
Negotiators at this year's United Nations climate summit struck an agreement early on Sunday in Baku, Azerbaijan, to triple the flow of money to help developing countries adopt cleaner energy and cope with the effects of climate change. Under the deal, wealthy nations pledged to reach $300 billion per year in support by 2035, up from a current target of $100 billion.
Independent experts, however, have placed the needs of developing countries much higher, at $1.3 trillion per year. That is the amount they say must be invested in the energy transitions of lower-income countries, in addition to what those countries already spend, to keep the planet's average temperature rise under 1.5 degrees Celsius. Beyond that threshold, scientists say, global warming will become more dangerous and harder to reverse.
The deal struck at the annual U.N.-sponsored climate talks calls on private companies and international lenders like the World Bank to cover the hundreds of billions in the shortfall. That was seen by some as a kind of escape clause for rich countries.
As soon as the Azerbaijani hosts banged the gavel and declared the deal done, Chandni Raina, the representative from India, the world's most populous country, tore into them, saying the process had been "stage managed."
"It is a paltry sum," Ms. Raina said. "I am sorry to say that we cannot accept it. We seek a much higher ambition from developed countries." She called the agreement "nothing more than an optical illusion."
Speakers from one developing country after another, from Bolivia to Nigeria to Fiji, echoed Ms. Raina's remarks and assailed the document in furious statements.
"Let me be crystal clear," said Juan Carlos Monterrey, Panama's special envoy for climate. "This process was chaotic, poorly managed, and a complete failure in terms of delivering the ambition required."
The financing negotiations were complicated by the election of Donald J. Trump less than a week before the summit's opening day. As the world's biggest economy, with significant sway over global financial institutions, the United States has been essential to meeting climate finance pledges.
Mr. Trump is widely expected to renege on any commitments negotiated in Baku and has said he will withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement, the landmark 2015 climate accord that aims to curb global greenhouse gas emissions.

Another difficulty was the expectation that the Republican-led Congress would curtail funding for Ukraine, placing a greater burden on that country's European allies and leaving less money available for climate efforts.
Many negotiators and diplomats said, however, that Mr. Trump's election had also created a sense of urgency around the need to speed the transformation of increasingly interconnected economies around the world, many of which are still largely dependent on fossil fuels like coal, oil and gas.
"I think when we came in here the question was, 'Does the U.S. have no juice?'" said John Podesta, President Biden's climate envoy. He said his team had been "extremely active in the negotiations" and that, "notwithstanding the president-elect's rhetoric around calling climate change a hoax," the United States would continue reducing its emissions over Mr. Trump's term in office.
The agreement, which is not legally binding and functions largely through diplomatic peer pressure, came after two weeks of divisive debate over who should pay and how much.
Under U.N. rules written in 1992, certain wealthy countries, mostly in the West, are considered developed, while other nations, including China and Saudi Arabia, are considered developing. Countries in the developing group are "invited" to provide financial aid but not expected to do so.
Today, however, many wealthy nations say the distinction no longer makes sense and that China, Saudi Arabia and others should be compelled to provide a share of climate financing. Western efforts to move those countries into the developed category were met with fierce resistance and were ultimately unsuccessful.
Developing countries have also accused Western nations of betraying their past commitments by failing to hit the previous $100 billion target until years after the deadline set under that agreement. They also accused rich countries of using domestic politics as an excuse to contribute less.
The negotiations, which had been scheduled to end on Friday but wrapped up just before sunrise on Sunday, took place near the end of another year of record-breaking heat. Global greenhouse gas emissions soared to a record 57 gigatons last year, and they are not on track to decline much, if at all, this decade, according to a U.N. report issued just before the summit, which is known as COP29.

Collectively, nations have been so slow to curtail their use of fossil fuels that many scientists regard the 1.5 degree Celsius goal as practically unattainable. If nations were to follow through on their current pledges to reduce their domestic emissions, according to the U.N. report, the world would still be on track for around 2.7 degrees Celsius of warming.
Countries are expected to submit updated emissions-reduction pledges in the coming months, before a February deadline. All eyes are on China and the United States, the world's top two greenhouse gas emitters, though for different reasons.
China is responsible for 30 percent of global emissions and for nearly all of the world's growth in emissions over the past decade. The U.S. pledge will signal the extent to which President Biden's administration thinks its signature climate legislation, the Inflation Reduction Act, can withstand environmental rollbacks promised by Mr. Trump.
At last year's climate summit in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, nations acknowledged for the first time the link between fossil fuels and global warming, and agreed to "transition away" from fossil fuels by midcentury.
In Dubai, the Saudi delegation in particular worked hard to prevent the summit's final declaration from mentioning fossil fuels at all. Reporting by The New York Times found that the Saudis had continued those efforts, in particular by working at five U.N. forums this year to kill any language that affirms the pledge. Several Western officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in line with diplomatic protocol, said Saudi negotiators did the same in Baku, in essence trying to reverse last year's agreement. Saudi officials at the summit declined to comment.
The agreement on finance ultimately affirmed a commitment to last year's consensus on transitioning away from fossil fuels. But delegates rejected a separate document that, in theory, focused on the transition away from fossil fuels, but that after many rounds of editing ended up not even mentioning them.
In theory, decisions at COP summits must be reached by unanimous consent. That means geopolitical blocs, or even individual countries, can drive hard bargains that threaten to derail talks. In practice, summit leaders can bend that general rule, as they did in Baku.
In Baku, the Azerbaijani hosts were responsible for building that consensus, and throughout the summit negotiators expressed frustration with a process that, for the two weeks leading up to Friday's deadline, seemed either deliberately slow or simply disorganized.
The conference was rancorous from its outset. Azerbaijan's authoritarian president, Ilham Aliyev, used his opening speech to upbraid Western governments and news media, whom he accused of hypocrisy. He pointed out that Europe bought much of Azerbaijan's gas and still wanted more, while "lecturing" Azerbaijan on transitioning away from the fuel.
Next year, Brazil will host. Delegates from developing nations, especially smaller, poorer ones, vowed to take forward fights on both finance and fossil fuels.
"Anything less will condemn the developing world to continued suffering and instability," Mr. Monterrey, the Panamanian envoy, said.
#157
Over the past five years, the leaders of the European Union tried to turn the 27-country bloc into a global climate front-runner.
They made big strides. They enshrined into law an ambitious target to cut planet-heating emissions by more than half by 2030. They set a 2035 deadline on the sales of new gas-guzzling cars. They expanded the price that industries must pay for emitting greenhouse gases.
But as voters went to the polls in recent days, Europe's green credentials faced a very different test.
There is widespread frustration over rising prices. Farmers' groups have stormed European capitals to protest proposals to limit pollution from agriculture. The right wing is ascendant. The Greens, who in 2019 won their largest share of seats in European parliamentary elections, are today polling poorly.
If Europe loses its green groove, it could have far-reaching consequences not only for European citizens and businesses, but also the rest of the world. Europe is among history's top polluters.
"There is a lot at stake," Laurence Tubiana, one of the key architects of the Paris climate accord and now the head of the European Climate Foundation, wrote in an email. "The gains of the last five years cannot be taken for granted."
Here are five takeaways from Europe's election.
The climate crisis faced new crises.
In the 2019 elections, the European Greens scored 10 percent of seats in the 705-member parliament, making them a force to contend with for the leading conservative European People's Party.
At the time, the zeitgeist was green. Climate protesters had filled the streets of European capital cities, demanding action.
The European Union soon approved the European Green Deal, with a legally binding target to reduce its emissions by 55 percent by 2030, compared with 1990 levels.
Then, three big things happened. A pandemic. Inflation. And the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Almost overnight, the war forced European countries to ditch natural gas piped in from Russia, which was, until then, a cheap source of electricity.
The bloc's economic powerhouse, Germany, felt the impact acutely, so much so that the government's efforts to accelerate the adoption of heat pumps became embroiled in the culture wars. Conservatives and right-wing politicians, supported by a populist press, railed against what the parties characterized, somewhat falsely, as a ban on gas boilers. The government had to back off and tweak its proposal.
But warming didn't stop being a problem.
Europe is warming faster than the global average. And hazards have been on plain display: fires in Greece, floods in Germany, crippling heat waves in Italy and Spain.
Polls show robust support for climate action, but also concern about costs and signs of what the European Council on Foreign Relations, a research organization, calls "growing greenlash." While people "want action to be taken on the climate crisis, they do not want to bear significant costs of the green transition themselves," the organization wrote in a recent analysis.
The vote will matter for years.
The immediate impact will be on the bloc's emissions-reduction targets for 2040.
The current proposals from the European Commission, the bloc's executive arm, calls for cuts of 90 percent by 2040, compared with 1990 levels. It's unclear what the next commission might support, particularly because the next round of cuts will likely require altering things that affect everyday lives, like home heating (hello, heat-pump controversy) and transportation. Keep an eye on how the 2035 ban on the sale of new internal combustion cars will fare.
Perhaps the toughest question will be what to do about emissions from agriculture.

Farmers' protests across Europe led the current administration to drop proposals to limit pollution from agriculture.
Looming over Europe's clean-energy-transition options are choices being made in the United States and China. The Biden Administration has showered green energy enterprises, from battery factories to carbon removal projects, with tax incentives. China is exporting low-cost solar panels, wind turbines, batteries and electric vehicles worldwide.
Rystad Energy, a private firm that looks at energy trends, pointed out that the roughly $125 billion that the European Union has invested in clean energy technology would soon fall behind the United States.
Politicians are coloring the Green Deal.
The leading European People's Party is claiming the Green Deal as its hallmark achievement, even as it whittles back unpopular provisions, like on farming, with an eye on the ballot box. It frames it as a way to sever Europe's dependence on Russia. "We turned Putin's challenge into a major new opportunity," the European Commission president, Ursula Von der Leyen, said in January.
Further on the right, the European Conservatives and Reformists party has cast some of the Green Deal's policies - setting aside land for restoration rather than agriculture, for instance - as a culture wars issue that it says unfairly target farmers. It has promised to examine what it calls in its election manifesto the Green Deal's "more problematic objectives."
The Greens's message to voters is that European businesses need a clear signal that they can compete in the green industries of the future. "These elections will determine the future of Europe's climate policy," Bas Eickhout, a Green party leader said by telephone. "If we stop now, it would be bad news for European industry."
Changes have been 'resilient' (so far).
Much more renewable energy has come online, putting the European Union on track to draw 70 percent of its electricity from wind and solar by 2030, according to E3G, a research group. European law puts a price on climate pollution in several industries. And European carmakers are, albeit belatedly, going electric.
The Green Deal "has turned out to be much stronger and resilient as a political agenda then many thought it would be," said Pieter de Pous, an analyst with E3G, "but it is also facing some formidable political opponents now, especially coming from the far right."
#158
The election of Donald J. Trump is sapping momentum from global climate talks as diplomats brace for his pro-fossil-fuel agenda.
World leaders gathering in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, on Monday for a global climate summit face a bleak reality: The United States, the country responsible for pumping the most greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, is expected to soon drop out of the fight against climate change.
The climate talks are the first significant United Nations gathering since Donald J. Trump won last week's American presidential election, and foreign diplomats are looking for any signals about how Mr. Trump might approach multilateral negotiations.
After his victory, American priorities are expected to quickly shift.
As he did in his first term, Mr. Trump, who mocks climate change, intends to remove the United States from the Paris Agreement, a 2015 international pact to protect the planet that he has called "horrendous."
That means the United States will renege on its commitment to reducing greenhouse gases at precisely the moment that scientists say nations must sharply and rapidly cut the heat-trapping pollution to avoid the worst consequences of an overheated planet.
It also means that the country, the wealthiest in the world, is likely to abandon plans to give financial aid to poor countries, which have done little to cause global warming but are unable to cope with climate disasters that are growing more severe. Financial aid for developing nations is a focus of the U.N. talks, which are known as COP29 and are scheduled to last two weeks.
Instead of transitioning away from fossil fuels, as the United States and nearly every other country pledged last year, the incoming Trump administration will soon go in the opposite direction. Mr. Trump has promised to "drill, baby, drill," export more gas to other nations - even as the U.S. is already the world's biggest exporter - and make it easier to burn coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel.
"We're not going to worry about emissions anymore," said Myron Ebell, a former senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization, who helped lead a transition team in Mr. Trump's first term. "The United States under the Trump administration will lead the world to a better future, and the sooner you forget all this stuff about reducing emissions the better."
Mr. Trump will not take office until Jan. 20, but his impending return and broader geopolitical tensions appear to be sapping momentum at COP29 even before it gets underway.
The leaders of the European Commission, Germany, France, Brazil, China, India, South Africa, Japan, Australia and Papua New Guinea, along with President Biden, are skipping the event. So are major financiers, including the heads of Bank of America, BlackRock, Standard Chartered and Deutsche Bank.
Representatives of the Biden administration in Baku are lame ducks now, with little leverage over any deal. Nations hoped to unlock billions or even trillions of dollars for clean energy and climate adaptation through an agreement, but that is now viewed as harder to achieve. America's credibility as a reliable partner in the fight against climate change is also on the line.

"We do have some experience from the first term of the Trump administration, when he took the U.S. outside the Paris Agreement," said the ambassador of Samoa, Fatumanava-o-Upolu III Dr Pa'olelei Luteru, who leads a coalition of small island nations in the climate talks. "If it's going to be the same, then we are extremely worried."
Senator Ben Cardin, a Maryland Democrat who chairs the Foreign Relations Committee, said world leaders are correct to be anxious. "Donald Trump will withdraw America's leadership on the global stage, and he will bend over backward to help the fossil fuel industry," he said.
Months ago, foreign diplomats insisted that they were prepared for the possibility of a second Trump administration. This week many acknowledged being stunned by his decisive win.
"To find that suddenly Trump has won the popular vote with a big margin, that is a big question. Why is it so?" asked Laurence Tubiana, who served as France's climate ambassador during the creation of the Paris Agreement. She called it "a blow for climate action."
Mr. Trump's transition team did not respond to requests to discuss his plans for the Paris Agreement, but multiple people close to his transition team said an executive order already has been prepared to start the withdrawal process.
Biden administration officials and environmental leaders insisted that the clean energy revolution is unstoppable, regardless of who controls the White House.
They also are assuring global allies that America's governors and mayors will help fill the void, as they did the last time Mr. Trump made the United States the only country to withdraw from the Paris accord.

"We've been in this position before," said Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, a Democrat who chairs a coalition of 24 governors that is sending a delegation to Baku. "We are going to continue our commitments."
Many made the case that circumstances are different from 2017, when Mr. Trump decided to pull the United States out of the Paris accord. The agreement was then in its infancy, and the global transition to clean energy was just getting started. Today, almost every country has a plan to draw down emissions, and clean energy is big business. Last week, more than 650 investors with $33 trillion in assets worldwide urged governments to enact policies aligned with preventing temperatures from reaching catastrophic levels.
The United States has since passed a landmark climate change law. The legislation, the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, is pumping at least $390 billion into wind, solar and other clean energy manufacturing.
Mr. Trump wants to repeal the law, but that could be politically challenging since about 80 percent of the investment in new manufacturing so far has flowed to Republican congressional districts.
"The investments that were stimulated by this administration not only are good for the economy but they're quite stable," said John Podesta, Mr. Biden's climate adviser, who is leading the American delegation in Baku.
"If you go sector by sector, the new power generation is going to be clean," he said. "The desire to build out next generation nuclear is still there. The hyper-scalers are still looking for deals with clean energy. The auto companies are still investing in electrification and hybridization. All these trends are not going to be reversed overnight by Trump."
And yet climate change math is unforgiving. Without the United States working at the national level to slash emissions and galvanize other countries, hope of preventing average global temperatures from rising by more than 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial levels is fading. That is the threshold beyond which climate scientists say the risks significantly increase for more destructive storms, drought, wildfires, heat waves and species extinction.
The European Union agency that monitors global warming said last week that 2024 is shaping up to be the hottest year in recorded history and the first calendar year in which global temperatures had consistently risen 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels.
A single year above 1.5 degrees Celsius does not mean the Paris Agreement target has been missed. Under the terms of the pact, for that to happen, temperatures would have to stay at or above 1.5 degrees over a 20-year period.
To constrain global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, scientists say nations must cut emissions 40 percent by the end of this decade. Instead, global greenhouse gas emissions soared to a record 57 gigatons last year and are not on track to decline much, if at all, this decade, according to a recent U.N. report.
The consequences of that warming are being felt on every continent. This year alone, three months worth of rain fell in a two-week period in Brazil and caused disastrous flooding, and torrential rains led to flash floods in Spain that killed more than 219 people. In the United States, Hurricanes Helene and Milton hit in quick succession, killing more than 230 people and causing as much as $34 billion in damages combined, according to an estimate by Moody's, a financial ratings agency.
"This is the new normal," said Niklas Höhne, a scientist with NewClimate Institute, a nonprofit group. "It will not go away. Only once we stop greenhouse gas emitting, the temperature will stop rising and the likelihood of such events will stop rising."
By some estimates, compared with Mr. Biden's policies, Mr. Trump's plans could add about four billion tons of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere by 2030. That's about equal to the amount produced annually by the world's 140 lowest emitting countries.
If Mr. Trump withdraws the United States from the Paris Agreement, it would be the third time the nation has abandoned an international climate agreement.
Under President Bill Clinton, the United States joined the Kyoto Protocol, a legally binding agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that was a precursor to the Paris Agreement. The Senate rejected it, though, because it set binding emissions caps but only for wealthy nations, letting China off the hook.
President Barack Obama reignited the country's climate efforts and helped design the Paris Agreement. Under that pact, nations of all levels of wealth and responsibility for causing climate change, including China, agreed to set domestic emissions targets.
The accord essentially ties together every nation's voluntary emissions pledge in a single forum, with the understanding that countries will set even tougher targets over time. It is not legally binding and there are no penalties for failure to meet climate goals.
Mr. Trump nevertheless saw the Paris deal as damaging to the American economy, and called it "draconian." He also halted American contributions to a global climate fund. Mr. Biden restored American participation on his first day in office in 2021.
Jonathan Pershing, who served as deputy climate envoy in the Obama and Biden administrations, said no other country followed the United States out of Paris under the first Trump administration, and he believes none will now.
But the erratic American behavior makes it hard to win the trust of allies, Mr. Pershing said. And this could be the moment when America finally loses its ability to convince other nations to act more aggressively on climate. "That to me is the worst outcome," he said.
Mr. Luteru, the ambassador of Samoa, said he is not ready to accept that the United States would abandon the climate fight. "The U.S., we're hoping that their conscience will tell them that they are part of this world," he said.
#159
Global capacity to generate power from coal, one of the most polluting fossil fuels, grew in 2023, driven by a wave of new plants coming online in China that coincided with a slowing pace of retirements of older plants in the United States and Europe.
The findings came in an annual report by Global Energy Monitor, a nonprofit organization that tracks energy projects around the world.
Coal's heavy greenhouse gas footprint has prompted calls for it to be rapidly phased out as a source of energy, and all of the world's countries have broadly agreed to reduce their dependence on coal. But industrializing economies, particularly in Asian countries with inexpensive access to domestic coal reserves, have set longer horizons for their transitions.
China alone accounted for two-thirds of the world's newly operating coal plants last year. Indonesia, India, Vietnam, Japan, Bangladesh, Pakistan and South Korea also inaugurated new plants, which typically operate for two to three decades.
One silver lining is that new coal plants are generally less polluting than older ones, but scientists, climate researchers and activists agree that moving away from not just coal, but all fossil fuels, has to happen as soon as possible to avoid the most dire consequences of global warming.
"Right now, coal's future is a two-part story: What do we do about currently operating coal plants, and then, how do we make sure the last coal plant that will ever exist is one that's already built," said Flora Champenois, one of the authors of the report. "If it weren't for the China boom, that's pretty much where we'd already be."
China, and, to a lesser extent, India, are still planning to build coal plants many years from now. In 2023, new coal plant construction hit an eight-year high in China. If China were to build all the others it has proposed, it would add the equivalent of one-third of its current operating fleet.
Today, China accounts for around 60 percent of the world's coal use, followed by India and then the United States. India relies most intensively on coal, with 80 percent of its electricity generation derived from it.
Editors' Picks
The flip side of the growth in coal is a slowdown in plant retirements in Western economies. Fewer were decommissioned in 2023 than in any year for the past decade. Phasing out all operating coal plants by 2040 would require closing an average of about two coal plants per week.
Analysts said the slowdown in 2023 may have been temporary, as the United States, Britain and European Union countries have set various targets to close all their existing coal plants well before 2040. The International Energy Agency's modeling suggests that, to align with the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius over preindustrial levels, rich countries should phase out coal by 2030 and it should be eliminated everywhere else by 2040.
"We had said that 2024 was the year coal would peak," said Carlos Torres Diaz, a senior vice president at Rystad Energy. "But right now, I would say it's not clear we'll hit that. We're near it, in any case."
Western countries relied on coal for well over a century, which is why, in no small part, they account for the majority of historical greenhouse gas emissions.
In an attempt to balance financial responsibility for the energy transition, richer countries have pooled tens of billions of dollars in loans to some coal-reliant developing countries like Indonesia, Vietnam and South Africa to help them build out renewable energy so as to transition more quickly away from coal. For now, however, much of that money remains undisbursed as stakeholders iron out disagreements.
For many developing countries, coal has one major advantage: It's cheap. Its price has also proved less volatile than oil and gas, the other major fossil fuels used in electricity production.
Bangladesh, for instance, had been building up its gas capacity. But fluctuations in price and availability, stemming largely from shocks related to the war in Ukraine, have prompted a rethink and a reinvestment in coal.
The same dynamic is, to some extent, true in China, analysts said. The pandemic's toll on China's economy has made its utilities more likely to opt for the cheapest fuel: coal.
China also leads the world in renewable energy expansion. That growth far outpaces coal's growth, and in some cases is tied to it. China's government says that much of the coal it uses or plans to use would serve as a fallback for times when renewable production dips and the grid requires more energy.
"While the data isn't totally clear from China, it is possible that while there may be more coal plants there could also be lower utilization of them," Mr. Diaz said. "But when it comes to coal, given that China is such an overwhelming part, whatever happens there really defines the global trend."
#160
The Australians were giving away fresh brewed coffee on Saturday afternoon. The Singaporean pavilion had free beer. The American delegation was mostly offering assurances that all hope was not lost.
The election of Donald J. Trump has cast a pall over the U.N. climate negotiations in Azerbaijan, putting U.S. representatives, most of them Democrats, in an especially awkward position.
With less than 70 days until Mr. Trump is inaugurated for a second time, a collection of Democratic officials was pledging that the United States would continue working to limit global warming, even as the country's next president threatened to do precisely the opposite.
"Effective in January, the United States government will be defecting from any position of responsibility," Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat, said on Saturday at the talks in Baku, Azerbaijan. "But that doesn't mean that there isn't going to be considerable activity coming out of the United States."
President-elect Trump may have other plans. During his campaign, he threatened to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord, roll back environmental regulations and expand the production of oil and gas, the main drivers of global warming.
His early cabinet picks suggest that he is preparing to act on some of his most extreme promises to remake American environmental policy. Mr. Trump has tapped Gov. Doug Burgum of North Dakota, who has deep ties to the oil industry, to run the Interior Department. Lee Zeldin, a former congressman and a loyal supporter, is in line to lead a far-reaching overhaul of the Environmental Protection Agency.
But to hear the Democrats in Baku tell it, these abrupt swings in policy won't stop the United States from embracing clean energy.
"Just like climate change won't be solved by any one president, climate action won't be stopped by any one president," Senator Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, said on Friday.
The economics of the energy transition have changed over the past eight years since Mr. Trump took office for his first term.
Solar power is cheaper and more ubiquitous than ever, and electric vehicles are going mainstream. The Inflation Reduction Act, signed by President Biden in 2022, has set off a wave of investment in domestic manufacturing, with companies building battery plants and factories making other clean energy components around the country, including in many Republican districts.
But Mr. Trump has threatened to blunt these efforts, pledging to dismantle parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, eliminate a tax credit for electric vehicles and instead shift federal support to the oil and gas industry.
At the conference in Baku, the U.S. delegation was working to influence the summit's talks on climate finance and carbon markets. It was also expected to set a new target to reduce the country's greenhouse gas emissions, although it is highly unlikely that the Trump administration will seek to meet it.
Diplomats from other countries were expressing their concern to the United States.
"They are sharing their fear and apprehension with us, but it hasn't really changed our approach to the issues," said Sue Biniaz, the lead U.S. negotiator. "Part of the vibe I'm feeling is that there's more of a sense of the unknown for next year."

Among the main fears is that Mr. Trump will make good on his pledge to immediately withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord.
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said that the Paris Agreement had endured a U.S. pullout before. Mr. Trump withdrew the country from the accord during his first term in office, only to see Mr. Biden rejoin.
"The future of U.S. climate policy may be less certain today than it was last week, but this moment is not unprecedented," Ms. Granholm said.
She noted that after the Trump administration pulled out of the agreement in 2017, many states and cities increased their support for climate policies while technologies like solar and wind continued to expand.
"While the leadership of the country on energy and policy may be changing, what's happening on the ground and what's happening in the private sector will mean that the United States will continue to push energy policy," Ms. Granholm said. "The private sector is all in, and so are many states across the country."
In California, Gov. Gavin Newsom has been scrambling to lock in protections to the state's climate policies before Mr. Trump takes office in January.
"This is not an issue of, like, benevolence, or, you know, environmentalism, even," said Yana Garcia, Mr. Newsom's secretary for environmental protection, who was attending her first U.N. climate summit. "It is a crisis of human survival."
The American presence was muted at this year's U.N. climate summit, known as COP29. Last year, Vice President Kamala Harris addressed world leaders at the event, which was held in Dubai. A year earlier, Mr. Biden spoke at COP27 in Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt.
This year, the work of speaking on behalf of the United States fell to John Podesta, the White House international climate adviser.
"While the United States federal government under Donald Trump may put climate action on the back burner, the work to contain climate change is going to continue in the United States with commitment and passion and belief," Mr. Podesta said at a news conference on Monday. "Setbacks are unavoidable, but giving up is unforgivable."
A few American conservatives were at the conference, including Representative August Pfluger, a Texas Republican, and Heather Reams, the president of Citizens for Responsible Energy Solutions, a nonprofit policy group that works on Republican efforts to address climate change.
On Saturday afternoon, Mr. Pfluger appeared on a panel with four other Republicans on the House Energy Committee to talk about the positive aspects of fossil fuels and tell attendees that the United States was not going to abandon its role as the world's largest oil and gas producer anytime soon.
"Last week, the people of the United States overwhelmingly supported President Donald Trump's promise to restore energy dominance," he said. He pointed out that China was now the world's largest emitter of carbon dioxide and said, "We cannot allow our energy future to be dictated by those who do not share our values."
Ms. Reams said she hoped Mr. Trump would not pull out of the Paris accord, a sentiment that was shared earlier in the week by the Exxon chief executive, Darren Woods. Ms. Reams also said she disagreed with Mr. Trump's plans to dismantle the Inflation Reduction Act.
"We don't think we should pull out of Paris," she said. "There's a messaging game in this, too. How serious is the United States?"
On Friday, an otherwise subdued conference received a jolt of energy when former Vice President Al Gore took the stage in the main plenary hall and implored international delegates to move more swiftly to reduce planet-warming emissions. Although he did not mention Mr. Trump by name during an hourlong presentation that drew loud applause at times, the context was clear.
"Do not be discouraged by any temporary political setbacks," Mr. Gore said. "We have to do this. We have no choice."
#161
Since April, heat waves, most likely fueled by climate change, have reached dangerous levels across India and other Asian countries. This week, many Indian cities, including New Delhi, the capital, recorded temperatures above 115 degrees Fahrenheit. Local governments sent out heat alerts warning people to avoid staying outside and schools in several states were ordered to close.
It's all happening as hundreds of millions of Indians head to the polls and are expected to re-elect Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
The grueling heat crisis, one of several in India over the last few years, made me wonder if the nation's leaders had made climate change more central in their campaigns.
Not really, my colleague Suhasini Raj, who covers India, told me.
"In their election manifestoes, India's top political parties, including the governing Bharatiya Janata Party and the main opposition, the Congress party, have made multiple promises to act on climate damage and reduce emissions," she said. "But climate pledges on paper are absent from speeches and rallies in the campaign trails."
Still, as Raj pointed out, Indians are suffering the effects of climate change more acutely than most. "Climate change and pollution lead to loss of livelihoods, forced migrations and kill over two million Indians annually," she said. "It is projected that 148.3 million people in India will be living in severe climate hot spots by 2050."
Measuring the impact of heat can be difficult: Estimates of how many deaths can be attributed to heat in India vary from a few hundred to tens of thousands a year. Official tolls often fail to capture the full lethality of extreme temperatures.
Today, I want to explain how India is adapting to extreme heat, even as climbing temperatures are making its transition to a cleaner economy even more difficult. The country is not short of good ideas. But scaling them in the world's most populous nation is still a challenge.
The rush to adapt
India was the first country in South Asia to create a heat action plan. It started in the city of Ahmedabad after an extreme heat wave in May 2010 resulted in a 43 percent increase in mortality compared with the same period in previous years, as Somini Sengupta wrote.
The plan involved establishing a system to warn residents when dangerous temperatures are expected, educating health care workers to recognize heat-related illnesses and opening cooling centers. Research estimates these programs save more than 1,000 lives a year.
Since 2010, India's national government has worked with over 20 states and more than 130 cities to establish their own heat action plans. The results are mixed. Many plans aren't public, fail to reach vulnerable populations or lack the resources to implement solutions.
But local governments are trying a variety of strategies. I asked Vishwas Chitale, from the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a think tank based in Delhi, to list some of the most successful.
He mentioned Telangana's statewide policy to help paint or tile roofs in white colors that can reflect sunlight and cool buildings, new heatstroke wards in big hospitals and a workshop run by India's National Disaster Management Authority to help local officials prepare for extreme heat.
A lot of the work is supported by the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group. Vijay Limaye, a climate and health scientist who follows India's heat policies for the group, told me that the country's experience showed that there were "some tested solutions." "But they need to be deployed rapidly and at scale," he said.
India's difficult energy transition
India is also the fastest-growing big economy in the world and its dependence on coal to produce electricity is a major source of concern in the struggle to curb climate change.
India's in a bind: It needs to replace coal even as its energy needs are growing quickly, along with its economy. More extreme temperatures create an even bigger burden, as the country is often forced to burn more coal to keep cooling devices running across the country.
This problem may only get more difficult in the future. Scientists say global temperatures will continue to rise and, though only 9 percent of Indians have air-conditioning units now, that number is likely to increase ninefold by 2050.
The good news is that, in recent years, renewable energy capacity has been growing fast, said Kaushik Deb, who runs the India program at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy.
In the first quarter of this year, for example, 71.5 percent of the new power capacity added in India came from renewable energy, according to an analysis by the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis. The report also noted that coal accounted for less than half of India's total capacity for the first time since the 1960s.
Making sure India's energy needs don't grow more than necessary is also part of the answer. That means investing in more efficient buildings and appliances, public transportation and electric vehicles, some of which are already part of India's development plan.
Until India can come up with a "sensible and reasonable adaptation policy for heat wave-kind events," Deb said, "the demand for electricity will continue to rise."
Ask NYT Climate: Is biodegradable plastic really a thing?
On the face of it, biodegradable plastic is a miracle. It looks like plastic and works much like plastic. And it goes back to nature after you throw it away.
But there's a big catch: Just because your plastic fork, cup or doggy poop bag is marketed as biodegradable, that doesn't necessarily mean it'll break down in the environment. The same goes for so-called compostable plastic. - Hiroko Tabuchi
Read more about which kinds of plastic break down and under which conditions and ask your own questions via the form at the bottom of the page.
#162
Vice President Kamala Harris, now the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, has a long history as a climate-minded politician. As California's attorney general, she prosecuted polluters, and as a U.S. senator she cosponsored the Green New Deal, a resolution that called on the nation to pivot away from fossil fuels but that never passed the Congress. During her time as vice president, she helped broker the largest climate deal in U.S. history, the $370 billion Inflation Reduction Act of 2022.
Now, the choice of running mate could help bolster her climate and energy agenda, or moderate her stance for voters in swing states.
So, where do some of the top contenders stand?
Josh Shapiro, Governor of Pennsylvania
On Monday, Gov. Josh Shapiro secured the second largest federal grant in Pennsylvania history, almost $400 million, to create 6,000 jobs and cut industrial pollution in President Biden's home state. The funds highlight Governor Shapiro's approach to addressing climate change in the region: use the crisis as an opportunity to employ workers, revitalize the economy and lower electric bills through the state's version of a cap-and-trade policy.
As a candidate, he set goals to generate 30 percent of the state's energy from renewables by 2030, a nearly 10-fold increase, and to stop adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere by 2050.
But Pennsylvania is also the land of natural gas, and the governor has waffled when it comes to fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, a drilling technique that injects water and chemicals underground at high pressure to extract oil or gas that is otherwise difficult to access. Environmentalists say it pollutes the air and groundwater.
In 2020, as the state's attorney general, Governor Shapiro concluded a two-year investigation into the dangers of fracking. But he's also angered environmentalists as governor by partnering with a natural gas company on a new program that requires drilling companies to disclose the chemicals they use, but allows those companies to continue fracking.
Andy Beshear, Governor of Kentucky
Gov. Andy Beshear, a two-time Democratic governor in a red state, gained national recognition for his responses to extreme weather disasters like the 2021 tornadoes and 2022 floods. While Kentucky's state climatologist said the floods were "consistent with our expectations" under climate change, Governor Beshear told the media, "I wish I could tell you why we keep getting hit here in Kentucky. I wish I could tell you why areas where people may not have much continue to get hit and lose everything. I can't give you the why, but I know what we do in response to it. And the answer is everything we can."
The governor has acknowledged that climate change is real but he doesn't discuss the climate crisis while tangling with a legislature run by a Republican supermajority. Last year, Kentucky was one of five states that rejected federal funding to create a climate action plan. Instead, Kentucky E3, a 2021 plan, promotes the use of fossil fuels alongside wind, solar and other renewables.
While Kentucky depends deeply on fossil fuels - it's the nation's fifth largest coal producer - the governor has also welcomed clean energy projects. The state now has the second fastest growth in clean energy jobs and Governor Beshear called Kentucky the nation's "E.V. Battery Production Capital."
Mark Kelly, U.S. Senator from Arizona
U.S. Senator Mark Kelly has been outspoken about the effects of extreme heat on Arizona, where a record 645 people suffered heat-related deaths in 2023. A former astronaut, Senator Kelly compared the planet's atmosphere to a thin contact lens when he told CNN last year, "We have got to do a better job taking care of it."
Senator Kelly and his fellow Arizonan, Senator Kyrsten Sinema, an Independent, cosponsored bipartisan legislation that enabled farmers to get financial incentives if they use agricultural techniques that store carbon. In 2022, he worked to include $4 billion for drought mitigation in the final version of the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act. And he serves on key energy and environment committees that focus on water resources for the West and on access to clean drinking water.
Roy Cooper, Governor of North Carolina
In his two terms as governor, Roy Cooper has experienced the effects of climate change through a series of powerful hurricanes and floods. In a drastic departure from the state's previous climate policy, in 2018 Governor Cooper said the storms meant that "we must combat climate change, make our state more resilient and lessen the impact of future natural disasters."
He's since set a goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by 2030, and to stop adding carbon to the atmosphere by 2050.
He signed a law that requires public utilities to reduce carbon emissions by 70 percent by 2030, which could lead to coal plant closures. He has supported an expansion of electric vehicles and emphasized the importance of environmental justice in the clean energy transition.
On Monday, his state was part of a conservation coalition granted more than $420 million in federal funding to preserve and protect 200,000 acres of coastline, forests, and farms.
#163
A.I. Needs Copper. It Just Helped to Find Millions of Tons of It.
The deposit, in Zambia, could make billions for Silicon Valley, provide minerals for the energy transition and help the United States in its rivalry with China.
Peering into their computer screens in California last year, the data crunchers watched a subterranean fortune come into focus.
What they saw transported them 10,000 miles across the world, to Zambia, and then one more mile straight down into the Earth. A rich lode of copper, deep in the bedrock, appeared before them, its contours revealed by a complex A.I.-driven technology they'd been painstakingly building for years.
On Thursday, their company, KoBold Metals, informed its business partners that their find is likely the largest copper discovery in more than a decade. According to their estimates, reviewed by The New York Times, the mine would produce at least 300,000 tons of copper a year once fully operational. That corresponds to a value of billions of dollars a year, for decades.
The New York Times also reviewed an independent, third-party assessment of KoBold's claims, which, while slightly more conservative than KoBold's own, largely corroborated the size of the deposit. In a statement, KoBold said it expected the value of the mine to grow because it had yet to map the full extent of its highest-grade ore.
It's the first confirmed success for a company that hopes to radically transform the way we find metals critical not only to the tech industry but to the fight against climate change. The geopolitical significance is vast. KoBold's find comes as the United States and China are increasingly clashing over global access to the minerals needed to manufacture clean-energy technologies.
KoBold originated half a decade ago in the belated realization among Silicon Valley's barons of what lay ahead.
Their products had become the backbone of the United States economy. But their businesses couldn't grow much further without a gargantuan increase in the mining of a handful of raw materials that make batteries, without which everything from cellphones to electric trucks simply can't function. They needed far more copper, cobalt, lithium and nickel.
Hundreds of new mines would be necessary, analysts calculated. And not just for consumer products, but for the house-sized lithium-ion batteries needed for backup on the nation's power grids as solar and wind power ebbs and flows.
A.I. data centers demand huge amounts of copper. Advanced weaponry requires nickel and cobalt.
Over two decades of production, KoBold's find in Zambia would yield enough copper for 100 million of today's average-size electric vehicle batteries.
"The more you realize how dependent we are on these technologies, the more you ask: How the hell were we so slow to the fact that we needed vast amounts of raw material to make it all possible?" said Connie Chan, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, the biggest venture capital firm in the United States and an early investor in KoBold.
The traditional mining industry lacked a convincing solution. Using exploration techniques largely unchanged in a century, the cost of new discoveries was rising while the pace of the finds slowed.

Around the same time, the U.S. government had a similar lightbulb moment. America had become far too reliant on China for these essential resources.
China had been heavily investing in global mining and metal processing, and controlled the production of 20 to 80 percent of its supply chains. The United States, on the other hand, has relatively few processing plants or mines, domestic or foreign, for most battery metals.
The International Energy Forum, a research organization, recently estimated that the world would need between 35 and 194 large new mines for copper alone through 2050. That translates to between one and six new copper mines, every year, the size of the one KoBold plans to dig in Zambia.
Investors from American and European private equity funds that collectively manage trillions of dollars in assets, including ones started by Silicon Valley giants like Bill Gates and Sam Altman of OpenAI, were joined by more traditional industrial companies in putting hundreds of millions of dollars into KoBold.
It already has 60-odd exploration projects in various countries. In some cases, like Zambia, where production is expected to begin in the early 2030s, it plans to own stakes in the mines themselves.
Its chief executive and co-founder, Kurt House, embraces the moneymaking potential of KoBold's technology, which is the company's alone to profit from. He is fond of saying "I don't need to be reminded again that I'm a capitalist."
The work is about to get a lot less theoretical.
KoBold is pumping $2.3 billion into its first mine and is negotiating tricky partnerships with contractors and governments alike. It is relying on the U.S. government to finance a new railway to export the copper. And, like the mining barons of yore, its leaders will soon be exposed to the social and environmental trade-offs that almost all mining poses.
On a quiet residential street in Oakland, Calif., Tom Hunt, who leads a team of data scientists at KoBold, gathered colleagues on Zoom. His setup was quintessentially white-collar. He and his wife, Lauren, share a work-from-home space. When he got animated explaining something, she peeked in from the porch.
The few clues to his life and work were on his desk, where a miniature model of the copper find in Zambia sat below a note from Lauren saying how much she loved him.
Beaming in from Southern California was Daniel Snowden-Ifft, head of the physics department at Occidental College in Los Angeles. He had dedicated much of his career to looking for dark matter. "I spent 20 years and never found any," he said. Now, he's developing a device that KoBold might use to find especially valuable members of the periodic table.
His gadget would be lowered into a drill hole, from where it would identify muons, infinitesimal subatomic particles, and send back density readings of the hidden underground world.
It's a technique that would be new to mining, but it has a proven, if unusual, record. Previously it's been used to suss out the location of burial chambers in Egyptian pyramids. Researchers have studied its potential for pinpointing illegal cross-border tunnels.
The muon detector is at the futuristic end of KoBold's growing database, called TerraShed. At the other are yellowing paper maps and typewritten reports gathering cobwebs in Zambia's mining archives, many a century old or more, which KoBold is digitizing. Elsewhere, KoBold collects its own radar and magnetic readings by flying modified Cessnas over promising territory.
TerraShed includes tens of millions of documents that can be overlaid to yield three-dimensional models of what might lie below.
"We think we're mostly done with the easy era of mining," said Mr. Hunt, who joined KoBold after working at Google and other Silicon Valley companies.
KoBold's discovery is a case in point. The area of Zambia where it was found is known for copper. In fact, its name is Copperbelt Province. Still, nobody had been able to home in on this mile-deep vein until KoBold did, right under everyone's noses.
The economies of Zambia and its colonial-era predecessor, Northern Rhodesia, have long been defined by copper, a material that humans have sought for millenniums. Well before wire heralded the modern age of electricity, copper was essential to Bronze Age toolmaking. Many of Zambia's best mines were originally spotted simply because colonial officials noticed that local people had already been mining them, sometimes for centuries.
Finding other battery metals will present bigger challenges.
Lithium, for instance, wasn't widely sought until a few decades ago. Mr. House, the KoBold chief executive, said this was exactly why the exploration industry needed to get creative. "We don't drill for metals, we drill for information," he said. "It puts the science into eureka."
Mr. House estimated that TerraShed contained about 3 percent of the world's available geological data.
Back on Mr. Hunt's Zoom screen, Audrey Lawrence, who manages TerraShed, raised her hands above her head and spread them out in trying to explain how big 3 percent already is. In doing so, she set off Zoom's automatic fireworks reaction.
Will Zambians benefit?
KoBold's find looks like a proof of concept with potentially huge payout for investors. And the company's partners include Zambia itself: The state mining company owns 20 percent.
That Zambians will benefit, though, is far from a foregone conclusion. Mining has left waste piled across Copperbelt Province, spawning lawsuits. One case alleges that local rivers at one point ran bright blue with copper tailings. And despite a century of mining, Zambia remains one of the world's least-developed and most indebted countries.
"The value of copper that has left Zambia is in the hundreds of billions of dollars. Hold that figure in your mind, and then look around yourself in Zambia," said Grieve Chelwa, a Zambian economist. "The link between resource and benefit is severed."
KoBold's biggest investors are the heirs of that legacy of inequity. Copper from Zambia helped build the economies on which Silicon Valley fortunes are based. KoBold says it aims to uplift local communities, and has attracted some of Zambia's top geologists back to the country from overseas.
But given the specific type of mine KoBold plans to dig, it's unclear if many locals will get hired. Underground mines, like this one will be, typically employ far fewer people than open-pit mines.
Kennedy Bondola, 40, worked in a nearby open-pit mine for 15 years before it was nearly exhausted. He lives in Kawama, a village directly above KoBold's find. Kawama is poor but resourceful. Its main road was busy with welders repairing household goods on a recent afternoon. Bar owners made their own liquor. Others smuggled maize flour into Congo, a mile or two away, where it can fetch double the price.
With a new mine, Mr. Bondola said, there was only one way Kawama could go: up. "Maybe it will become a real town," he said.
KoBold's team is still determining exactly where to dig the mine's shaft. There is a lake directly above the ore, and a major highway, along with the village of Kawama.
"For a find this valuable, there's nothing on the surface we can't move," said George Gilchrist, a South African geologist who is leading KoBold's exploration in Zambia.
In an interview in the capital, Lusaka, the Zambian president, Hakainde Hichilema, said one way to ensure greater benefits was for his country to own more of the mine. He said he was pressing KoBold to increase the share owned by the state mining company to above one-third. The extra money "will allow us to invest in sectors that ordinarily are difficult for us," he said.
Mr. Hichilema is desperate for revenue.
More than a third of his budget goes toward repaying international debts, leaving little for health and education. Most of the capital gets only a few hours of electricity per day. It will take more than a slightly bigger stake in one mine, however large the mine may be, to solve that.
"The benefits of this mine for Zambia," Dr. Chelwa said, "are purely theoretical at this point."
For the United States government, the benefits are far more clear.
"We are the American beachhead in Africa," said Jennifer Fendrick, KoBold's director for government affairs. "And that's how the government sees it." Before joining KoBold, she was a senior State Department strategist on critical minerals.
While the U.S. government hasn't directly invested in KoBold, it is partially underwriting a $2.3 billion railway to the Angolan coast from Copperbelt Province, enabling copper to be more easily shipped to the United States. It's Washington's single-biggest investment to catch up to Beijing in Africa's battery-metal sweepstakes.
Recently, Mr. House prepared to meet face-to-face with Mr. Hichilema. He was accompanied by his main investors along with Linnisa Wahid, the acting U.S. ambassador. Mr. House, wearing a lapel pin with the American and Zambian flags, asked for Ms. Wahid's help when he brought up the railway.
"Your affirmation at that moment would be great," he said.
While U.S. mining interests in Zambia are progressing, accessing neighboring Congo's cobalt reserves is trickier. China-based companies own or have major stakes in most cobalt-producing sites in Congo, which produced 76 percent of the world's supply last year.
Biden administration officials are debating whether to lift sanctions on a billionaire Israeli mining executive accused of creating a web of corrupt practices in Congo's mines. The sanctions have dissuaded American companies from investing there.
There are other ways the United States could procure battery metals, but they face big obstacles. Parts of the seabed are rich in critical minerals, but a dispute has raged for years over how, or whether, oceans should be mined. And more mines could be opened within the United States itself, but that prospect has drawn objections, particularly from Indigenous communities.
Whether the United States sticks with its climate goals also hinges on this year's presidential election. A win by former President Donald J. Trump would very likely severely curtail energy transition incentives.
For now, the Biden administration is pushing ahead.
"We need 25 times as much cobalt as we currently mine," said Jose W. Fernandez, the State Department's top energy official, in an interview in New York recently, not to mention all the other metals and minerals reshaping the global economy. "We've got to get into the ring. We'll be skewered if we fail."
#164
Five dry words - "transitioning away from fossil fuels" - led to a bitter diplomatic spat Tuesday.
A handful of petrostates, led by Saudi Arabia and Russia, ensured that a United Nations General Assembly resolution on climate change steered clear of such language, despite established scientific consensus that the continued burning of coal, oil and gas is rapidly heating up the planet.
It demonstrates how a handful of countries, with their own economic and political interests, can stymie global action on slowing down dangerous levels of global warming.
The General Assembly resolution is not binding. But words carry meaning and precedence in diplomacy. And the fight to excise that critical phrase on a transition from fossil fuels is part of a concerted yearlong diplomatic campaign by Saudi Arabia to make countries distance themselves from a commitment made last year at the global climate talks in Dubai to move away from oil, gas and coal.
The commitment, made at the COP28 climate talks last December, was vague on how to make such a transition. But it was the first time that such an explicit mention of decarbonizing the world's energy system was included in an international agreement. It opened the door to including similar language in subsequent agreements, such as the resolution that diplomats had been negotiating for weeks at the General Assembly in New York.
The European Union proposed an amendment that mirrored the COP28 agreement. It included a goal of tripling renewable energy capacity, doubling energy efficiency, and "transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems, in a just, orderly and equitable manner."
That amendment failed when it was put to a vote.
Saudi Arabia said it lacked "balance." Russia called it "cherry-picking" from the broader COP28 deal.
Fiji summed up the position of those in support of phasing out fossil fuels by saying, simply, "We need to be guided by science."
The resolution on the "protection of global climate for present and future generations of humankind" is an annual exercise, aimed at putting the General Assembly's stamp of approval on the previous round of climate talks.
Science notwithstanding, the triumph of fossil fuels is evident in the real world. Global carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels have increased from 2023 and are projected to reach a record 37.4 billion metric tons in 2024, according to new data from the Global Carbon Project.

Saudi Arabia has successfully opposed including similar fossil fuel transition language in some other international declarations, including at a United Nations-led biodiversity summit. But Saudi officials did not prevail in nixing fossil fuel transition language in the agreement reached at the COP29 climate negotiations in Baku, Azerbaijan, earlier this month.
#165
Even as it pivots to solar and wind for itself, Greece aims to become a natural gas supplier across Europe. Among its strongest backers is the United States.
When a withering financial crisis forced Greece to rethink its economy a decade ago, it bet big on green power?. Since then, Greece's energy transition has been so swift "it almost feels utopian?,"? one Greek environmentalist said.
?Mountainous ridgelines and arid islands ?are covered in wind turbines and solar panels? that ?today provide nearly two-thirds of the nation's electricity.???
But ?now Greece? is deliberately pivoting back toward fossil fuels, just not to burn at home. This time it's betting that it can become one of Europe's main suppliers of natural gas, with much of it shipped from the United States.
Both Greek and European Union subsidies have funded new pipelines that crisscross the country and connect to a brand-new import terminal that will send gas to a broad swath of Central and Eastern Europe for decades to come.
The investments in Greece are part of a deluge of investments into natural gas around the world, with significant consequences for climate change. In coming years, nearly a trillion and a half dollars will go into constructing pipelines and terminals, according to Global Energy Monitor. Twenty percent of that spending is in Europe.
The world's pivot to gas speaks to a kind of hedging that increasingly defines global climate negotiations: While nations have agreed on the necessity to transition away from fossil fuels as quickly as possible, almost all major economic powers are promoting gas as a "transition fuel."
Its proponents argue that gas is cleaner-burning than coal and oil, and more reliable than renewables like wind or solar. Critics counter that renewables are increasingly affordable and that gas is anything but reliable, as Europe should have learned through collectively spending trillions of additional dollars on it during the energy crisis that followed Russia's invasion of Ukraine, draining government coffers and causing electricity prices to soar.
Natural gas is a climate threat in two ways. Burning it produces carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas warming the world. Large but unknown quantities of it also leak into the atmosphere unburned, where it has highly potent but shorter-term planet-warming effects. These concerns prompted the Biden administration this year to pause issuing permits for new export terminals while it assesses their effects on the climate.
But the United States is still far and away the world's main exporter of gas. And those concerns haven't stopped the administration from pushing for Greece to become a new hub for American gas exports in Europe.
Greece is swiftly expanding its capacity to import and pipe gas across the region.
In this arrangement, Greece gets billions of dollars of heavily subsidized gas infrastructure, but the bigger payoff is political, not financial. Greece positions itself as central to European energy security, and it plays a key role in the West's strategy to isolate Russia.
The real money will be made by American gas companies. Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the United States has more than doubled its exports of liquefied natural gas, or L.N.G., to Europe, amounting to nearly $100 billion in trade.
In Greece, the newest centerpiece is a floating gas terminal off the country's northern coast. The facility was once an enormous tanker, but today it is stationary, held in place not just by anchors but also by its connection to an undersea pipeline with branches stretching across Europe.
In April, its first delivery of L.N.G. arrived from the Gulf Coast. The operators of the terminal hope that more than half of its supply will come from the United States.
That terminal is "near and dear to my heart," said Geoffrey R. Pyatt, the former U.S. ambassador to Greece and Ukraine, speaking this month in New York City? at a private event on ?Mediterranean energy? supplies. Mr. Pyatt is now the State Department's top energy official.
Mr. Pyatt told attendees?? that the United States is the "unrivaled global champion" of gas exports?, and he assured them that American companies were "strongly committed to their involvement in the region." He also said he was "eager to see" American fossil fuel companies partner with Greece and nearby Cyprus to exploit their own offshore gas fields.
Mr. Pyatt, being intimately familiar with both Greece and Ukraine, helped engineer Greece's new status as an import hub. A major factor was urgency. Ukraine, for obvious reasons, will let a treaty elapse this year that had allowed Russia to pump gas across its territory.
He and other U.S. officials have lobbied European nations to use Greece's new terminal and pipelines, promoting American L.N.G. as a natural replacement for Russian gas ?(which, unlike Russian oil, hasn't been banned in the E.U.?).
"It is unfortunate to say, but war gave us the demand," said Kostis Sifnaios, who heads Gastrade, the company operating the new floating terminal. "If I think about the money the U.S. puts into Ukraine, Bulgaria, Moldova, and so on, somehow they will have to get paid back, no? That's why you see so much American L.N.G. flowing into this region."
A diagram of the Revithoussa terminal near Athens.
Mr. Sifnaios recalled Mr. Pyatt and other officials "actively lobbying countries like Serbia, Bulgaria and North Macedonia and encouraging them to make bookings" for gas from the new terminal. Even Ukraine is a potential customer.
But the real market is in the Balkans and Central Europe. Balkan countries like Bulgaria and Serbia are behind the rest of the continent in transitioning to renewable energy.
Energy analysts as well as environmentalists have raised concerns that easing their access to gas may discourage building renewables, and leave the poorer countries among them more susceptible to the price shocks that the gas market has seen in recent years.
"The Balkans were essentially skipped over for investment by Europe for the past 20 years," said Antonio Tricarico, a regional expert at ReCommon, an organization that studies fossil fuel interests in Europe. "While it may look like now they are getting attention, they are really just getting skipped again, this time by getting hooked to gas instead of helped with renewable energy."
On a recent day, in a remote forest near Greece's border with Albania, workers set off a series of rapid-fire explosions that raced along a wide path cut through the woods. The dynamite was to help excavate a trench for a new pipeline. Only a few dozen yards away, another gash cuts through the forest, where a separate new pipeline crosses Greece on its path from gas fields in the Caspian Sea all the way to Italy. Soon, yet another pipeline will be built, connecting this network to neighboring North Macedonia.
The lines will eventually pipe gas to neighboring countries and beyond.
The Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, as well as the E.U.'s internal energy regulation agency, project that demand for L.N.G. in Europe will reach its peak this year, in large part because even though Europe's biggest economies are investing in gas, they are simultaneously building out renewables at a rapid pace. By 2030, Europe is projected to have nearly three times as much L.N.G. import capacity as it will need.
If those forecasts prove to be correct, then Europe is currently channeling public funding toward gas projects it knows it won't make money, in the name of geopolitics.
To some extent, that's already true. In the E.U.'s decision to grant $180 million toward the building of the Greek floating gas terminal, it said that "the project would not be financially profitable without the aid measure."
"Without public subsidies, all this would hardly go ahead," said Mr. Tricarico.
Despite the uncertain economic proposition for gas in Europe, and against protests from climate activists, Greece has proposed at least one more floating gas terminal, right next to the first.
"A second terminal would just be outrageous," said Theodota Nantsou, the head of policy at the World Wildlife Fund in Greece. WWF has filed an injunction in the Greek courts to prevent more public funding from going to gas infrastructure. "I just don't see why we continue to subsidize fossil fuels with taxpayer money," she said, pointing out that last year Greece, albeit for just a few hours, ran its entire electricity grid on renewables.
Theodota Nantsou: "I just don't see why we continue to subsidize fossil fuels."
Greece's own demand for gas has declined so much that its one previously existing import terminal, which occupies a small island called Revithoussa just outside of Athens, sat largely idle on a recent day. But that's partly because it serves only Greece's domestic market, not cross-border shipments, and Greek power needs are increasingly satisfied by wind and solar.
At Revithoussa, the summer heat was causing some of the liquefied gas stored in the facility's huge tanks to convert back into gaseous form. It takes a lot of energy to keep natural gas liquefied, so the terminal's operators had chosen to burn off the excess gas by flaring, a process that experts say is wasteful and polluting and should be avoided if possible.
Meantime, at the new floating terminal across the Aegean Sea, Mr. Sifnaios said bookings were strong, thanks in large part to diplomatic efforts.
Despite the United States' and Europe's desire to use Greece to financially isolate Russia, at least some of the gas that reaches Europe through Greece will still be Russian. Countries like Hungary and Slovakia, which have straddled the geopolitical divide between the West and Russia, say they will continue buying Russian gas even after the pipeline route through Ukraine closes.
"And if they order it from Russia, it's not like we will deny them," said Mr. Sifnaios.
#166
Coal, nickel, palm oil, rainforests.
The riches of Indonesia matter to the rest of the world. Therefore, so does its presidential election.
Early results on Wednesday in the world's third-largest democracy signaled the victory of Prabowo Subianto, a former army general linked to human rights abuses, as the country's next president. The new government's approach on the management of its natural resources could have a significant effect on the world's ability to keep global warming to relatively safe levels. Environmentalists are also watching what the vote might mean for their ability to operate freely in a country with a history of repression.
Indonesia is the world's largest exporter of coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel and something that the world must quickly stop burning in order to avoid the worst consequences of global warming. But Indonesia also has huge reserves of nickel, which is critical to battery-making and the transition to cleaner energy.
Mr. Prabowo has said that he supports transitioning the country away from coal power, though gradually. He also supports a ban on exports of raw nickel, designed to encourage a homegrown battery-making industry, that has been in place for several years.
Those two initiatives clash.
Processing nickel requires vast amounts of energy. So, Indonesia has been on a binge of building new coal-burning power plants. That, in turn, has driven up Indonesia's emissions of planet-warming greenhouse gases.
Mr. Prabowo has cast himself as a candidate who would largely continue the policies of the departing president, Joko Widodo, whose administration imposed the nickel export ban.
Indonesia's global climate role is important in another way. The country has vast stretches of forest that are vital to the effort to slow global warming because they pull so much planet-warming carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere.
However, Indonesia is also the largest exporter of palm oil, which is used in a range of everyday products from soap to ice cream, and the production of palm oil has led to severe deforestation in recent decades. While deforestation rates have slowed lately, Mr. Prabowo's promises to produce more biofuels could quickly reverse those gains.
In short, what happens in Indonesia doesn't stay in Indonesia.
It's doubling down on coal
Indonesia is a huge exporter of coal, with China its main buyer. Coal is also critical to domestic energy: It supplies the single-largest share of Indonesia's electricity.
Indonesia is part of a $20 billion global agreement, led by the United States, to retire some of Indonesia's coal-burning power plants earlier than planned. That agreement, called the Just Energy Transition Partnership, hasn't resulted in any specific plans to close coal plants yet.
In fact, despite the coal transition agreement, Indonesia's coal fleet is expanding. Indonesia's emissions of carbon dioxide soared by more than 20 percent in 2022, the most recent year for which data is available, according to Climate Action Tracker, an independent organization that rates country-level emissions targets. It assessed Indonesia's climate targets to be "critically insufficient."
Nickel makes it a new-energy powerhouse
Mr. Joko's administration cast Indonesia as central to the global transition to electric vehicles. By banning the export of nickel ore, critical for electric-vehicle batteries, he pushed international companies to invest in processing nickel in the country.
China obliged. The Chinese company Tsingshan set up factories to process nickel ore so it could be turned into electric-vehicle batteries as well as other products like stainless steel. But that's driving up coal power.
With Chinese support, Indonesia is building a fleet of new coal-burning power plants to supply its booming nickel processing facilities. Processed nickel is more lucrative than nickel ore, though it brings a host of social and environmental risks. A recent report by the nonprofit research and advocacy group Climate Rights International found that nickel mining and processing units had violated the rights of Indigenous communities and caused water and air pollution.
Mr. Prabowo, on the campaign trail, said he would continue the mineral export ban. S&P Global, a company that analyzes trends in commodities, said the ban would "likely remain largely unchanged."
Biofuels raise deforestation worries
Indonesia is already the world's largest exporter of palm oil. Mr. Prabowo has proposed to set up a separate palm oil ministry.
Mr. Prabowo campaigned to expand production of biofuels from crops including palm oil, cassava and sugar cane. Environmentalists worry that a push for biofuels could lead to deforestation, reversing the gains that Indonesia had made in protecting its rich forests.
Mr. Prabowo, the current defense minister, was removed from the army after he was linked to the kidnapping of political dissidents. His record on rights has raised concerns among climate activists. During the campaign, Mr. Prabowo dismissed such questions. He has never been charged in a court of law.
Should he be the final winner of Wednesday's election, said Firdaus Cahyadi, a campaigner for 350.org, which supports action on global warming, "it will make it difficult for civil society movements in Indonesia, including the environmental and climate movements."
#167
The Biden administration on Tuesday released rules designed to speed up permits for clean energy while requiring federal agencies to more heavily weigh damaging effects on the climate and on low-income communities before approving projects like highways and oil wells.
As part of a deal to raise the country's debt limit last year, Congress required changes to the National Environmental Policy Act, a 54-year-old bedrock law that requires the government to consider environmental effects and to seek public input before approving any project that necessitates federal permits.
That bipartisan debt ceiling legislation included reforms to the environmental law designed to streamline the approval process for major construction projects, such as oil pipelines, highways and power lines for wind- and solar-generated electricity. The rules released Tuesday, by the White House Council on Environmental Quality, are intended to guide federal agencies in putting the reforms in place.
But they also lay out additional requirements created to prioritize projects with strong environmental benefits, while adding layers of review for projects that could harm the climate or their surrounding communities.
"These reforms will deliver smarter decisions, quicker permitting, and projects that are built better and faster," said Brenda Mallory, chair of the council. "As we accelerate our clean energy future, we are also protecting communities from pollution and environmental harms that can result from poor planning and decision making while making sure we build projects in the right places."
The move comes as President Biden rushes to push through a slew of major environmental rules ahead of November's presidential election, including policies to limit climate-warming pollution from cars, trucks, power plants and oil and gas wells; to protect the habitats of the sage grouse and other endangered species; to ban asbestos; and to remove so-called forever chemicals from tap water.
The rules announced Tuesday could help to more quickly carry out Mr. Biden's signature climate law, the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, which includes at least $370 billion in tax incentives to expand renewable energy, such as wind and solar power, as well as electric vehicles. Analysts say it could be difficult to fully realize the benefits of the law if, say, the construction of transmission lines needed for renewable energy or electric vehicle charging stations is bogged down in the permitting process.
The National Environmental Policy Act, known as NEPA, was signed into law by President Richard M. Nixon in 1970, after several environmental disasters, including a crude oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara, Calif., and fires on the heavily polluted Cuyahoga River in Ohio, that shocked the nation.
For decades, the oil and gas, construction and real estate industries complained that the permitting requirements hindered business. Communities affected by major projects and environmental groups have often been able to use NEPA to delay or prevent projects from moving forward.
During his term as president, Donald J. Trump, a real estate developer, stripped away some of the protections under the environmental law, only to have Mr. Biden restore them.
Last year, as Mr. Biden sought Republican support for legislation to lift the federal debt ceiling, he agreed to speed up federal approvals for all kinds of projects, polluting or not. The new provisions include a requirement that the analyses of a project's environmental impact be completed within two years. One recent government study found these analyses took an average of 4.5 years.
At the same time, the new rules released by the White House Council for Environmental Quality would allow projects that have a demonstrated long-term environmental benefit to receive expedited environmental reviews or bypass them altogether. Federal agencies would also be required to identify environmentally preferable alternatives to proposed projects early in the permit review process.
They also direct federal agencies to consider whether a proposed project would avoid or reduce the pollution that disproportionately affects low-income and minority communities.
"This is a big deal because for the first time it prioritizes projects that have climate change and or environmental justice benefits, such as transmission lines that bring renewable energy to market," said Ted Boling, an environmental lawyer who worked in the environmental quality council from the Clinton to the Trump administrations.
"When it's time to permit a highway, agencies will be required to address the environmental justice effects of siting highways that split neighborhoods," Mr. Boling said.
Environmentalists roundly praised the rules.
"We are thrilled to see NEPA strengthened and restored," said Sam Wojcicki, senior director of climate policy at the National Audubon Society. "The new climate and environmental justice provisions will result in more robust, more resilient projects, while ensuring that the voices of impacted communities are heard. Meaningful community engagement is critical for an equitable, sustainable, and lasting clean energy transition."
The construction industry criticized the changes.
Ben Brubeck, a vice president of the Associated Builders and Contractors, an industry group, said in a statement, "These unnecessarily onerous new NEPA regulations will make it more difficult to build important projects and are a major step backward for critical infrastructure, the construction industry and America's economic future. While both Republicans and Democrats have long agreed on the need for common-sense permitting reform, this final rule fails to meaningfully improve environmental protections and actually expands and lengthens environmental reviews that already take years."
Senator Joe Manchin III, the West Virginia Democrat who has opposed much of Mr. Biden's climate agenda, said he would try to block the rule.
Mr. Manchin, a champion of coal and gas, worked to include environmental permitting reforms in the debt ceiling legislation. He criticized the White House's move to add climate-focused requirements.
"At a time when everyone agrees that it takes too long to build infrastructure in this country, the administration's new NEPA regulations will take us backward," Mr. Manchin said in a statement. "All the White House had to do was implement the common-sense, bipartisan permitting reforms in the Fiscal Responsibility Act, that all sides agreed upon, but once again they've disregarded the deal that was made, the intent of the law that was signed, and are instead corrupting it with their own radical agenda. This will only lead to more costly delays and litigation."
Mr. Manchin threatened to lead a vote to undo the rule. Under the Congressional Review Act of 1996, a new regulation can be undone by a simple majority vote in Congress within 60 legislative days of its publication in the Federal Register. Given Democrats' razor-thin majority in the Senate, it is possible that Mr. Manchin's effort to roll back the rule could be successful if he were joined by Republicans and just a few members of his own party. However, even if lawmakers succeed in rolling back the rule, the effort is unlikely to sustain an all-but-certain veto from Mr. Biden.
The rule could be vulnerable to further attack if Mr. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, is re-elected to the White House, where he has promised to decimate much of Mr. Biden's environmental legacy.
#168
It took 28 years of climate negotiations for world leaders to agree to wean the global economy from the principal source of climate change: the burning of fossil fuels.
"We're finally naming the elephant in the room," said Mohamed Adow, a climate campaigner from Kenya.
It happened at the tail end of the hottest year on record. The talks were led by an oil company executive, in a desert kingdom built on oil.
Why does it matter? And what does it say about a world in war, hunger and turmoil?
Here are some takeaways:
Geopolitics Didn't Derail the Whole Thing
That is notable considering the bitter divisions among countries over wars in Gaza and Ukraine, lingering resentment over unequal access to coronavirus vaccines and tensions between the United States and China.
It was also notable given the competing energy needs of many powerful countries: petrostates like Saudi Arabia, whose entire economies run on oil money; big emerging countries like India with fast-growing energy needs; major fossil fuel producers like the United States and China that are racing to ramp up renewables.
It is a measure of the gravity of climate hazards facing both rich and poor countries. "Crises are mounting around the world, the floods, the wildfires, the impacts," said Alden Meyer, a veteran climate summit analyst with E3G, a research and advocacy group.
"We have helped to restore faith and trust in multilateralism," said Sultan Al Jaber, the Emirati oil executive who presided over the negotiations.
Agreement Reached
Nearly 200 countries convened by the United Nations approved a milestone plan to ramp up renewable energy and transition away from coal, oil and gas.
Trust Is in Short Supply, Especially Over Money
The transition away from fossil fuels, including the tripling of renewable energy like wind and solar, is impossible without vast sums of cash.
The agreement called for tripling of renewable energy by 2030. But whether that can happen depends on how much money is offered for emerging economies and low-income countries, and how soon. Those discussions were left for later, which caused diplomats and advocates to bristle
Arunabha Ghosh, chief executive of the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a nonprofit research organization based in New Delhi, said that without effective financial tools, emerging economies that aim to expand their renewable fleet would be undermined.
"It hasn't sufficiently raised climate ambition, held historical polluters accountable, or established effective mechanisms to finance climate resilience and a just low-carbon transition for the Global South," he said of the summit.
Distrust between developing countries and wealthy ones were evident throughout the discussions.
While the European Union and the United States insisted on ambitious language on a fossil fuels phaseout, said Comfort Ero, president of the International Crisis Group, "their lack of concrete commitments to increase climate finance for the green transition to cleaner energy sources has left these pleas feeling insincere."
What happens in the boardrooms of multilateral development banks will be key. There have been calls for those lending institutions, including the World Bank, to change how they loan money for energy projects.
"The road to fossil fuel phaseout lies first through massive financial flows for a huge investment in renewables," said Avinash Persaud, an adviser to the prime minister of Barbados. "Now, we have a plan to get there. Implementing that plan requires governments and the multilateral development banks to be better, bigger and bolder."
Watch What Happens in National Capitals
Short-term needs over the next couple of years may conflict with the ambitions laid down on paper.
The United States, for instance, is expanding its oil and gas production. Europe is building liquefied gas terminals to ensure the continent's energy security as its supply of Russian gas dries up. China, also driven by energy security concerns, has been on a coal binge.
A key test for national governments will come in 2025, when every country is expected to set its next round of climate targets, known as nationally determined contributions.
"Whether this is a turning point that truly marks the beginning of the end of the fossil fuel era depends on the actions that come next," former Vice President Al Gore said.
One Modest Victory for Countries on the Front Lines
For the hardest hit countries that have to cope with climate impacts no matter how quickly the transition away from fossil fuels happens, there wasn't much at this summit.
Expect contentious debates at the next one about how to shore up money for adaptation.
But there was one important win early on: A fund was formally established to offer money to countries that have suffered irreparable economic losses and damages. The money pledged to that fund was modest: around $700 million. The United States committed $17 million, which one climate campaigner from India, Harjeet Singh, called "paltry" compared with other countries. The United Arab Emirates and Germany committed $100 million each.
#169
President-elect Donald J. Trump repeatedly promised voters that he would cut energy and electricity prices in half within 18 months of taking office.
His transition team is just now working on a strategy to accomplish this, according to three people familiar with the discussions who asked for anonymity to discuss internal conversations.
The emerging plan is a repackaging of Mr. Trump's energy policy. Advisers think Mr. Trump can lower prices by boosting oil and gas production, which is already at record levels in the United States. To pump up production, he plans to quickly approve new drilling projects and pipeline construction and get rid of environmental regulations that the industry says add to its costs.
But energy industry experts noted that a president has limited tools to influence how much Americans pay at the pump, and even less leverage when it comes to electricity prices. More than a dozen experts said Mr. Trump's strategy might succeed in lowering prices, but not enough to meet his goal.
"It can't happen," said Ed Hirs, an energy economist at the University of Houston.
"Good luck," said Gernot Wagner, a climate economist at Columbia Business School.
"It is not completely impossible, but it is highly unlikely," said Edmund Crooks, vice chair of the Americas for Woods Mackenzie, an energy consulting firm.
Karoline Leavitt, Mr. Trump's spokeswoman, declined to discuss details but insisted Mr. Trump would halve energy prices. "He will deliver," she said in a statement.
Image
One lever that Mr. Trump intends to use is increasing production by swiftly approving drilling permits on federal lands and waters.
He also is expected to overhaul the National Environmental Policy Act, a bedrock environmental law, in ways that could exempt gas pipelines and other energy projects from environmental review. That's something Mr. Trump tried in his first term, but it took three years to complete and was reversed by the Biden administration.
People close to the Trump transition insisted that those measures would "unleash" millions more barrels of U.S. crude production.
Energy analysts agreed that supply would most likely rise under the Trump administration, and that prices would drop. But most said it would not cut gas prices in half.
"The U.S. is part of a well-integrated oil market, and the number one factor that drives prices is global conditions," Mr. Crooks said. "Is it possible that U.S. production would rise enough to cut prices in half in a sustained way? No. That's highly unlikely."
If it did, Mr. Crooks and others said, it would invite different problems. Getting prices as low as Mr. Trump envisions could make it unprofitable for energy companies.
Economists said the minimum price at which oil operators can drill without incurring a loss was around $45 to $50 a barrel. Currently the price of a barrel of oil is about $70.
If it were to drop to half, "at that price, you're shutting down production," said Jason Bordoff, founding director of the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs.
Mr. Trump has also pledged to eliminate all of the Biden administration's regulations aimed at limiting carbon emissions from tailpipes, smokestacks and oil and gas wells. That could save utilities and oil companies billions of dollars.
"It's hard to overestimate how improved the regulatory and policy environment for oil and gas is going to be," said Bob McNally, the president of the research firm Rapidan Energy Group and a White House energy adviser in the George W. Bush administration.
But Mr. McNally also said deregulation combined with rapid approvals of new drilling would not result in immediate increases in production or deep savings for consumers.
"I've looked for the magic wand to lower prices," Mr. McNally said. "I couldn't find it."
When it comes to electricity prices, which vary by location, about 40 percent are distribution and transmission costs that don't fluctuate with policy, said Chris Seiple, vice chairman of Wood Mackenzie's Power & Renewables group.
Less expensive gas could lower electricity bills but not by half, he said.
Both Mr. Seiple and Mr. Bordoff argued that speeding up the construction of transmission lines and gas pipelines would help lower electricity costs because it would help add more capacity to the grid.
But another one of Mr. Trump's promises - to boost liquefied natural gas exports - could swing the price pendulum the other direction. If European or Asian nations are willing to pay a higher price for U.S. gas, it could raise prices domestically, which would be reflected in higher electricity bills, analysts said.
On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump repeated his pledge to halve electricity and gas prices more than four dozen times. But he also gave himself an out.
"We intend to slash prices by half within 12 months, at a maximum 18 months," Mr. Trump said. "And if it doesn't work out, you say, oh, well, I voted for him. I still got it down a lot."
#170
Nearly every day, there is confounding news to make us question whether the world is pushing hard enough to transition away from fossil fuels.
Yesterday, Chevron announced a $53 billion acquisition of a midsize rival, as Big Oil consolidates and doubles down on the bet that fossil fuel demand will continue to increase.
But if you zoom out just a bit, the picture may be a bit clearer. This morning, the International Energy Agency predicted that global demand for oil, natural gas and coal will peak in about seven years, as my colleague Brad Plumer reported. Solar, wind, hydropower, electric vehicles and heat pumps are all projected to surge.
A separate study that came out last week suggests the world may have reached "a global irreversible solar tipping point," with ever-cheaper solar dominating electricity markets purely because of market forces, without any additional climate policies.
For the past few months, we've been telling you all about the U.S. energy transition that's arriving faster than you think. But the move toward solar is global: the study's authors expect solar to be the cheapest source of electricity in almost all countries by 2027.
If the I.E.A.'s projections come to pass, oil and gas demand would most likely plateau at slightly above today's levels for the next three decades, expanding in developing countries and shrinking in advanced economies. Demand for coal, the dirtiest of fossil fuels, would start declining, though it might fluctuate year to year if, say, coal plants needed to run more often during heat waves or droughts.
"The transition to clean energy is happening worldwide and it's unstoppable," Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency, told Brad.
The cleanest fuel is the cheapest
Cost is the bedrock of the solar revolution. Between 2010 and 2020, the study found, the cost of solar cells fell by 15 percent each year. Those are staggering numbers.
"The pace of decline in price initially surprised many people," my colleague Ivan Penn, who covers the energy sector, told me.
Starting in the 2000s, China pumped billions of dollars into solar technology as it tried to reduce its dependence on foreign energy. The boom in production, and the ruthless competition and scientific innovation that followed, caused the price of panels to plummet, even as many companies were driven out of business.
It was also around that time that California started to heavily subsidize rooftop solar. About a quarter of the state's electricity now comes from solar.
According to a recent report by Lazard, a financial advisory and management firm, unsubsidized solar photovoltaic and onshore wind power are now about 48 percent cheaper than the next cheapest energy source, natural gas.
"Add federal tax incentives designed to hasten development of more clean energy resources and the cost of solar and wind drop to zero," Ivan said, citing the report.
What about Big Oil?
The companies and countries that are dependent on fossil fuel profits will not stand idly by and let their fossil fuel operations fade away.
"We live in the real world, and have to allocate capital to meet real world demands," Mike Wirth, the chief executive of Chevron, told the Financial Times. He predicted demand for oil would "continue to grow to 2030 and beyond."
The oil cartel OPEC has warned that the forecast from the I.E.A. could lead countries and companies to underinvest in oil and gas drilling. The resulting lack of supply could lead to "energy chaos," the cartel said. It projects that global demand for oil and natural gas will keep rising until 2045.
Companies are adapting to new realities, most noticeably with a wave of consolidation with the Chevron-Hess deal, and the even bigger Exxon acquisition of Pioneer Energy this month. As DealBook reports, investors haven't been pleased with European oil giants like BP and Shell that have, until recently, emphasized their efforts to reduce carbon emissions.
The path ahead
The world is at a crossroads, said Femke Nijsse, a lecturer at the University of Exeter and one of the authors of the solar tipping point study.
Pulling in one direction are the countries and governments that want to increase fossil fuel production, which are reaping the vast profits that oil and gas still generate. Pulling the other way are the leaders, entrepreneurs, policymakers and activists who are urgently trying to move the world toward clean energy, empowered by the stunning drop in cost for solar and other clean energy technologies. 
The fossil fuel camp is betting that acquisitions like the Chevron-Hess deal and investments in new production will pay off in the long term. But the example of solar shows that market forces can be uniquely powerful in their own right.
"There is a lot of policy that still needs to be written," Nijsse said. But "we can repeat the success of solar in different sectors."
Poland Spring's hidden attack on a Maine water law
When Maine lawmakers tried to tighten regulations on large-scale access to water, the company behind Poland Spring and other big bottled water brands set out to rewrite the rules.
Bottlers have faced increasing scrutiny for the millions of throwaway plastic bottles they produce, the marketing message that their products are safer or healthier than tap water, and for a business model in which they buy freshwater, often at low cost, only to sell it back to the public at much higher prices.
A company called BlueTriton owns many of the nation's biggest brands, including Poland Spring, which is named after a natural spring in Maine that ran dry decades ago.
Proposed legislation in Maine threatened BlueTriton's access to the groundwater it bottles and sells. Then a lobbyist for BlueTriton proposed an amendment that would gut the entire bill.
#171
Republicans and some Democrats tried to repeal a waiver issued by the Biden administration that allows federally funded E.V. chargers to be made from imported iron and steel.
President Biden on Wednesday vetoed a Republican-led effort that could have thwarted the administration's plans to invest $7.5 billion to build electric vehicle charging stations across the country.
In issuing the veto, Mr. Biden argued that the congressional resolution would have hurt domestic manufacturing as well as the clean energy transition.
"If enacted, this resolution would undermine the hundreds of millions of dollars that the private sector has already invested in domestic E.V. charging manufacturing, and chill further domestic investment in this critical market," Mr. Biden said in a statement.
The move comes amid a growing political divide over electric vehicles. The Biden administration is aggressively promoting them as an important part of the fight to slow global warming. The landmark climate law signed in 2022 by Mr. Biden, the Inflation Reduction Act, offers incentives to consumers to buy electric vehicles and to manufacturers to build them in the United States.
Republicans, including former President Donald J. Trump, Mr. Biden's likely challenger in the 2024 election, have attacked electric vehicles as unreliable, inconvenient and ceding America's auto manufacturing to China, which dominates the supply chain for electric vehicles.
Republicans, with some Democrats, voted to repeal a waiver issued by the Biden administration that allows federally funded electric vehicle chargers to be made from imported iron and steel, as long as they are assembled in the United States.
The "buy American" requirement of the 2021 infrastructure law says that iron and steel produced in the United States must be used for projects funded by the Federal Highway Administration Act. The law includes $7.5 billion to build a national network for recharging electric vehicles.
Installing electric vehicle charging stations is a top priority of the administration because surveys show that many motorists who are interested in buying E.V.s are hesitant to do so because of a lack of convenient charging stations.
Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, introduced the effort to kill the waiver. "It hurts American companies and empowers foreign adversaries, like China, to control our energy infrastructure," he said in July. "We should never use American dollars to subsidize Chinese-made products."
On Wednesday, learning of Mr. Biden's veto, Mr. Rubio wrote on the social media platform X, "Why is he sending American taxpayer dollars to Chinese companies?"
The White House argued that by repealing the waiver, lawmakers were actually blocking made-in-America requirements.
That's because a repeal would have caused a return to a 1983 policy that waives domestic requirements for many manufactured products. That would have made it more likely that federal funds would be "spent on chargers made in competitor nations like the People's Republic of China," Mr. Biden said in his veto statement.
The Senate voted, 50-48, in November to repeal the wavier, with the Democrats Sherrod Brown of Ohio, Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Jon Tester of Montana joining Republicans to remove the exemption. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky was the only Republican to oppose the measure.
The House voted, 209 to 198, in January for the repeal. Two Democrats, Jared Golden of Maine and Donald Davis of North Carolina, voted with Republicans in favor of the measure. Two Republicans, Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania and Tom McClintock of California, opposed it.
#172
They are just two little words. They appear on just one page of an 11,000 word document.
But the inclusion of the phrase "fossil fuels" in the final agreement from COP28 marks a potentially trajectory-altering moment in the fight against climate change. The global pact calls for "transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems, in a just, orderly and equitable manner."
For almost 30 years, negotiators representing nations from around the world had struggled and failed to reach an obvious consensus: that the burning of fossil fuels like coal, oil and gas should be wound down to avoid further catastrophic global warming.
But overnight, representatives from more than 170 countries arrived at a surprising deal, in Dubai of all places.
The text is not as clear as many leaders, activists and scientists had hoped. It includes caveats and wiggle room, and is nonbinding. Nevertheless, the inclusion of explicit language calling for a move away from coal, oil and gas is being hailed as a major breakthrough.
"After three decades of U.N. climate negotiations, countries have at last shifted the focus to the polluting fossil fuels driving the climate crisis," said Manuel Pulgar-Vidal, who was president of COP20 in 2014, and now works for the World Wildlife Fund. "This outcome must signal the beginning of the end for the fossil fuel era."
The agreement to transition away from fossil fuels was reached in the United Arab Emirates, one of the world's biggest oil producers. The president of COP28, Sultan Al Jaber, is also head of the U.A.E's state oil company and he came under withering criticism for his conflict of interest.
But after two weeks of negotiations, it was Al Jaber who ultimately muscled language about ending fossil fuels into the final COP agreement.
"The much-criticized U.A.E. Presidency has pulled this off," Myles Allen, a climate scientist at the University of Oxford, told Bloomberg. "Everyone seemed ready to write COP28 off just 24 hours ago, you have to hand it to them."
In Dubai, many of the sleep-deprived diplomats celebrated the outcome. 
"There is a strangely very optimistic feeling here compared with the angry mood just one and a half days ago," one negotiator told me via Whatsapp, haggard after two weeks of nonstop meetings.
The celebrations are likely to be short-lived. This year was the hottest in recorded history, and scientists expect 2024 to be just as hot, if not hotter, as the El Niño climate pattern compounds the warming driven by fossil fuels. Oil, gas and coal production continue to rise. Fossil fuel companies are planning for decades of increased production, and many countries are still reliant on fossil fuels for revenue and economic growth.
For COP28 to truly make a difference, it will take more than an aspirational statement. It will require policymakers to enact substantive changes in their countries, rapidly scaling up renewable energy and improving energy efficiency. It will mean sweeping changes to the global financial system to provide more capital to developing nations. There will have to be fundamental changes to the food system, serious efforts to protect nature and new technological advances.
But sometimes the arc of history can begin to shift with just two little words.

The world reacts to the new climate deal
Officials, advocates and scientists from around the world have reacted to the final COP28 declaration. Here is a selection of what they have said:
"The deal is not perfect, but one thing is clear: the world is no longer denying our harmful addiction to fossil fuels." - Inger Andersen, executive director of the United Nations Environment Programme.
"Now a critical test is whether far more finance is mobilized for developing countries to help make the energy transition possible." - Ani Dasgupta, president of the World Resources Institute.
"Every investor should understand now that the future investments that are profitable and long-term are renewable energy - and investing in fossil fuels is a stranded asset." - Jennifer Morgan, Germany's climate envoy, told Bloomberg.
"We have made an incremental advancement over business as usual, when what we really need is an exponential step change in our actions." - Samoa representative Anne Rasmussen on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States.
"This is a historic milestone on the journey to transitioning away from fossil fuels - a development that seemed all but impossible even two years ago. But we must be mindful that this is the bare minimum." - Sir David King, founder and chair of the Climate Crisis Advisory Group.
"Some activists were disappointed we didn't commit to an immediate fossil fuel phaseout. Still, without the trade, investment and finance to achieve it, it would either have hit developing countries hardest or been meaningless." - Avinash Persaud, special climate envoy of Barbados.
"We are not happy but we all agree." - Russian federation delegate Mikhail Gitarskiy, according to CNBC
#173
Former President Donald J. Trump has spent years ridiculing electric vehicles, saying they don't go far, are too expensive and are made in China. He has promised to end federal support for electric vehicles, a central feature of President Biden's strategy to cut the carbon dioxide that is heating the planet.
But in recent months, Mr. Trump has been saying some nice things about E.V.s. While he still throws some shade on electric vehicles, in the same breath he also tells crowds that he likes them.
On Saturday, he went further, telling a rally in Grand Rapids, Mich., "I'm constantly talking about electric vehicles but I don't mean I'm against them. I'm totally for them." Moments later he said, "I've driven them and they are incredible, but they're not for everybody."
This subtle softening began after Mr. Trump met in March with Elon Musk, the billionaire chief executive of Tesla, in Palm Beach, Fla. The two men began frequent discussions on a range of topics, including conversations about electric vehicles, according to comments Mr. Musk made last month at a shareholders meeting. "He just called me out of the blue," Mr. Musk said. "I don't know why, but he does."
As spring turned to summer, Mr. Trump shifted his attacks from the reliability and value of electric vehicles to the federal incentives for consumers to buy E.V.s, and to environmental regulations designed to prod automakers to step up production. He's said that anyone who wants to buy an electric vehicle should be able to but the government should not shape the car market.
Asked at the Tesla shareholders meeting in June about Mr. Trump's apparent turn, Mr. Musk replied, "I can be persuasive," according to an audio recording.
"A lot of his friends now have Teslas and they all love it," Mr. Musk said. "And he's a huge fan of the Cybertruck. So I think those may be contributing factors."
In fact, The Washington Post reported in 2015 that Mr. Trump's fleet of personal vehicles included a Tesla. And as president, Mr. Trump once held an event at the White House to promote an electric pickup truck made by Lordstown Motors, which later went bankrupt. But after he lost the 2020 election and President Biden began a concerted push for electric vehicles, Mr. Trump began attacking them.
Neither Mr. Trump nor Mr. Musk responded to a request for comment.
Both men stand to benefit from their new alliance.

For Mr. Trump, the enthusiastic backing of Mr. Musk, one of the world's wealthiest men and a near mythical figure among Republicans, would be helpful. "The one thing connected to E.V.s that Republicans like, is they like Elon," said Mike Murphy, a veteran Republican consultant who promotes electric vehicles.
"Elon Musk, I love Elon Musk," Mr. Trump told the crowd on Saturday. "Do we love him? I love him."
For Mr. Musk, the elimination of the $7,500 federal tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles could hurt GM, Ford and other Tesla competitors. The 2022 Inflation Reduction Act provides tax credits of up to $7,500 for buyers of electric vehicles, but some Tesla models do not qualify because of several requirements, including that the vehicles be free of Chinese-made components.
"Take away the subsidies," Mr. Musk wrote on X this month. "It will only help Tesla."
Tesla, which has had an enormous head start in production and already has a network of charging stations, may be more likely to remain profitable without subsidies than legacy automakers like GM or Ford, analysts have said.
Mr. Musk was once a sharp critic of Mr. Trump, resigning from two advisory councils during Mr. Trump's presidency over his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate agreement. But within a half-hour of the July 13 assassination attempt against Mr. Trump, Mr. Musk endorsed his campaign to return to the White House.
"Elon endorsed me the other day," Mr. Trump said at the Saturday rally, adding that Mr. Musk has pledged to donate $45 million a month to his campaign. "Not $45 million - $45 million a month!"
Despite the Biden administration's support for electric vehicles, Mr. Musk has felt slighted since 2021, when Tesla was not invited to a White House meeting on E.V.s. He has bristled at the administration's support for Detroit's unionized automakers, taking offense when Mr. Biden posted a video on X in January 2022 in which he was speaking with Mary Barra, the chairwoman and chief executive of General Motors. "I meant it when I said the future was going to be made right here in America," Mr. Biden wrote. "Companies like GM and Ford are building more electric vehicles here at home than ever before."
Four months later, Mr. Musk was still stewing. "This administration has done everything it can to sideline & ignore Tesla, even though we have made twice as many E.V.s as rest of U.S. industry combined," Mr. Musk wrote.
The future of electric vehicles and the course of the clean energy transition in America could be altered by the 2024 election. Mr. Trump, who has dismissed climate change as a hoax, wants to expand oil and gas drilling. Mr. Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris consider climate change an urgent threat and want to move the country away from fossil fuels and toward clean energy.
In response to the Biden administration's policies, American automakers have invested billions to create the capacity to produce electric vehicles, which made up 6.8 percent of new vehicle sales in the United States in May, according to Edmunds, a company that reviews cars and tracks the auto market. In the global market, American automakers are facing stiff competition from BYD, China's leading auto company, which has been heavily subsidized by the Chinese government and churns out inexpensive cars that have flooded China and are beginning to sell in Europe.
"Any auto C.E.O. will tell you electric vehicles are going to save the automobile industry so the Chinese don't dominate it," Mr. Murphy said. "But in Trump's mind, he identifies investments in electric vehicles with Biden policy, so it's wrong and has to be attacked."
There is a clear partisan split in public opinion when it comes to electric vehicles. In a Pew Research Center survey in June, 77 percent of Republicans said they would not consider purchasing an electric vehicle for their next car and only 13 percent reported being "very interested" in an E.V. That's compared with 45 percent of Democrats who said they would be "very interested" in making their next car an electric one.
"Trump is tapping into something Republicans really believe," said Whit Ayres, a Republican political consultant. "They're far less likely to consider buying an electric vehicle and they really resent the idea that the government is going to come along and subsidize these Democrats who want to buy an electric vehicle."
Mr. Trump insists that the American car market will never be completely electric. "You can't have 100 percent of your cars electric," he told the crowd in Michigan on Saturday. "We can't electrify our cities."
He repeated a familiar promise to end the "electric vehicle mandate on Day 1," a phrase he uses to refer to Biden administration limits on automobile tailpipe emissions. It is designed to ensure that the majority, not 100 percent, of new passenger cars and light trucks sold in the U.S. are all-electric or hybrids by 2032. It does not ban the sales of gasoline-powered cars and trucks.
As the Inflation Reduction Act was making its way through Congress in 2021, Mr. Musk argued that it should be abandoned. He said government spending levels were "insane."
"We don't need the $7,500 tax credit," Mr. Musk said at a Wall Street Journal conference. "I would say, honestly, I would say I would just can this whole bill. Don't pass it." He also dismissed federal money to build electric vehicle charging stations, saying "Do we need to support the gas stations? We don't."
Tesla has benefited greatly from government money in the past. The company received a $465 million loan guarantee from the Department of Energy that allowed it to produce specially designed, all-electric plug-in vehicles and build a facility in California to make battery packs, electric motors and other components. It repaid the loan in 2013.
Mr. Musk seems unbothered by Mr. Trump's declaration that he would end policies designed to get more people to buy electric vehicles. "It'll be fine," Mr. Musk wrote on his social media platform, X.
But Mr. Trump and his allies have promoted other policies that could hurt Tesla.
For example, Project 2025, a blueprint for a next Republican administration written by more than 100 of Mr. Trump's former aides, calls for revoking California's ability to set its own emissions standards. That ability, under a waiver of the Clean Air Act, has underpinned California's goal of selling only zero-emissions vehicles by 2035, making Tesla a major player in that market.
Conservatives said they believed that Mr. Musk had little to worry about from a second Trump administration.
"I just don't see the downside risk from a business perspective for Musk," said James Pethokoukis, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a right-leaning research organization in Washington.
"Does it seem likely that actions by the Trump administration will undercut the only American company that's successful at manufacturing these cars, employs about 150,000 people and is based in Texas, and, oh yeah, whose owner is now a massive donor to the Republican Party and supports President Trump?" Mr. Pethokoukis asked.
#174
The Edison Electric Institute, which represents investor-owned utilities, would not say whether it supported a more limited rule. But Emily Sanford Fisher, the group's executive vice president of clean energy, said in a statement that the E.P.A. had "acknowledged our concerns" about gas plants.
"We understand that the role of natural gas continues to evolve, and it is important that regulations for existing natural gas protect customer reliability and affordability and support our industry's ongoing clean energy transition," she said.
Imposing rules on how American homes and businesses are powered has never been easy.
President Barack Obama tried to cut carbon pollution from power plants by engineering a transition to renewable power, but his 2015 Clean Power Plan was put on hold by the Supreme Court and later rolled back by President Donald J. Trump.
In 2022 the Supreme Court restrained the way E.P.A. could regulate emissions from power plants, ruling the government could not force a wholesale transition away from coal-fired electricity.
When the Biden administration first proposed new limits on pollution from power plants, the E.P.A. hewed closely to the restrictions imposed by the Supreme Court. Still, the resistance was immediate.
Electric utility groups argued that the rules for existing gas plants would be particularly hard to meet; the country's biggest manufacturing lobby warned it could have "devastating consequences"; and a small but significant number of swing state Democrats said they also feared the requirements would result in electric rate increases.
"Depending on implementation, municipal electric utilities serving small, rural communities in my district may have no choice but to pass along the costs of compliance to their ratepayers," said Representative Marcy Kaptur, Democrat of Ohio.
Ms. Kaptur was among a group of House and Senate Democrats who wrote to the E.P.A. in January to express concern about the proposed regulation. "We share the administration's goal of responsibly reducing carbon emissions," they wrote. But, they added "we cannot ask our constituents to bear the cost of that risk in the form of significantly higher utility bills and unreliable electricity."
Senator Jon Tester, one of the most vulnerable Democrats facing re-election in November who also opposed the power plant rule, said he wanted a methodical transition to cleaner energy. "I'm all about climate change, and we have to figure out ways to that," Mr. Tester said on Wednesday. "In the meantime, we can't shut off the spigot."
The Democratic critics represent a small slice of the party. But some fear that the segment will grow as more than a half-dozen regulations cracking down on everything from carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles and power plants to handling of coal ash, chemicals, endangered species and environmental permits are finalized this spring.
"I do worry about this," said Representative Henry Cuellar, a Texas Democrat who frequently promotes fossil fuels, said in a recent interview.
"In my area, you've got generations of people who have worked for energy companies and you've got families that depend on and work in this industry," Mr. Cuellar said. He said he supported cutting greenhouse gas emissions that are driving climate change but added, "I think there should be incentives instead of mandating."
Under the new plan disclosed on Thursday, the E.P.A. said it intended to finalize its regulation to require existing coal plants to install technology that will capture 90 percent of their carbon emissions by 2035. Alternatively, coal plants could convert their operations so that they are burning mostly hydrogen by 2038. Plants that cannot meet the new standards would be forced to retire.
The E.P.A. did not say when it intended to issue a separate rule for gas plants. Mr. Regan said the agency was writing a regulation that will also address other harmful pollutants emitted from gas plants like formaldehyde and nitrous oxide.
Delaying the final regulation past this spring runs the risk of it being overturned by the next Congress. The 1996 Congressional Review Act permits lawmakers to undo regulations with a simple majority within the first 60 days of the finalization of a new rule. Republicans have already pledged to repeal rules written by the Biden administration rules if they win control of the White House and Congress in November.
Some climate activists said they supported the E.P.A.'s decision. A group of environmental justice leaders led by Robert Bullard, a professor of urban planning and environmental policy at Texas Southern University, issued a letter in support of the delay because they were glad to learn it meant the agency would also consider blocking nitrous oxide and other pollutants.
"Many of our communities experience the immediate impacts of living near the existing infrastructure of coal plants, gas plants, pipelines, and extraction and refining facilities," Dr. Bullard and others wrote.
Others noted that an analysis conducted by Evergreen, another environmental advocacy group, said that only 5.2 percent of gas-fired turbines, representing 22 percent of the nation's gas power capacity, would be covered by the rule.
"There's no good way to regulate fossil gas plants without regulating all of them, ," said Abigail Dillen, president of Earthjustice, an environmental group.
#175
If the United States were to continue exporting liquefied natural gas in the way that has made it the world's biggest gas supplier, it would drive up costs for American consumers and businesses, pollute struggling communities and increase global greenhouse gas emissions, according to a letter written by Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm that was obtained Monday by The Times.
The letter was written to accompany a study of the economic, national security and climate effects of approving new natural gas export terminals that was released Tuesday by the Energy Department.
President Biden ordered the analysis in January, when he paused the process of issuing permits for more than a dozen new gas export facilities, including what would be the largest terminal ever built in the United States. The pause was praised by environmentalists but triggered outrage from the oil and gas industry.
In the letter, Ms. Granholm said that the analysis showed that the continued pace of gas exports was "neither sustainable nor advisable."
However, the report does not provide grounds for the federal government to issue blanket denials of the final permits for future natural gas terminals. Under federal law, two agencies are responsible for approving L.N.G. projects. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approves location and construction, while the Energy Department must determine if exports are "in the public interest." To date, the Energy Department has never denied any company seeking such a permit.
The report could provide a legal argument for those seeking to sue to stop permits for export terminals in the future, the senior administration officials said.
In her letter, Ms. Granholm wrote that future administrations must scrutinize each proposed project and consider the economic and environmental issues raised by the analyses. The report may compel companies seeking permits to more thoroughly demonstrate that they have mitigated the greenhouse pollution associated with extracting and transporting the gas, and also force future administrations to show how they have reconciled decisions to approve new terminals with the report's findings.
Ms. Granholm noted that U.S. exports of natural gas had tripled over the last five years, are expected to double by 2030 and could double again based only on new terminals that have already been approved and planned.
While she said that selling L.N.G. overseas generates "wealth for the owners of export facilities" and jobs across the supply chain, Ms. Granholm wrote that "unfettered exports" would mean less gas available at home, causing domestic wholesale prices to increase about 30 percent. That, in turn, would increase costs for the average American household by more than $100 a year by 2050 and quite likely also cause electricity prices to rise. For heavy industry, costs could go up by $125 billion, she said, citing the report. That in turn could lead to higher prices on goods for consumers, she wrote.
When it comes to climate change, Ms. Granholm said new export facilities should face rigorous questions "especially in a world that needs to quickly reduce greenhouse gas emissions."
Under a scenario in which more than the current level of gas was exported, the report found that the direct emissions would be 1.5 gigatons per year by 2050. That's about a quarter of annual emissions generated by the United States, the world's second-biggest polluter. That figure does not take into account that additional gas might displace dirtier fuels like coal.
The gas industry frequently claims that American exports of natural gas help the climate by displacing coal, which produces more carbon dioxide when burned. But Ms. Granholm noted that the study found increased L.N.G. exports would displace more wind, solar and other renewable energy than coal. The study modeled five scenarios and in every one, global greenhouse gases were projected to rise, even when researchers assumed aggressive use of technologies to capture and store carbon emissions.
The secretary noted that export terminals were concentrated in communities along the Gulf Coast and elsewhere that already struggle from elevated levels of pollution generated by refineries, petrochemical factories and other industries. The burden on those communities would only grow if new terminals were constructed, she wrote.
Since Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022, American L.N.G. "has proven critical for our allies in Europe as they wean themselves off Russian gas," Ms. Granholm wrote. But she said the report found that European demand had flattened, peaked in Japan and was expected to flatten soon in South Korea. Most of the new demand will be in China, she wrote.
The White House did not respond to a request for comment.
Ending the pause on new export terminals has been a top aim of the oil and gas industry, which donated heavily to help return President-elect Donald J. Trump to the White House. Mr. Trump has promised to expand the drilling and burning of fossil fuels, the main driver of climate change. He has suggested he would approve some permits as soon as he takes office. On Dec. 10, he wrote on the social media site X, "Any person or company investing ONE BILLION DOLLARS, OR MORE, in the United States of America, will receive fully expedited approvals and permits, including, but in no way limited to, all Environmental approvals. GET READY TO ROCK!!!"
The pause in new permits became a lightning rod during this year's presidential race.
It followed a campaign by climate activists, who threatened to "punish" the Biden-Harris administration if it approved the largest of the terminals, known as Calcasieu Pass 2. But the pause galvanized the oil and gas industry against the administration, whipping up support and $75 million in donations for Mr. Trump's campaign.
Over the summer, a judge ordered the Biden administration to resume issuing permits, and it approved at least one export permit. But Republicans and the oil and gas industry have accused the administration of effectively continuing the pause, by deliberately continuing to stall new approvals.
Climate activists and oil lobbyists both say that the pause did slow plans for new export terminals, though it does not appear to have caused the cancellation of any individual projects.
Environmentalists have used stalling tactics to block fossil-fuel infrastructure projects such as the Keystone XL pipeline, which would have brought carbon-heavy oil from Canada's oil sands to the United States; the Dakota Access pipeline, an oil route from North Dakota to Illinois that triggered protests from Native American groups; as well as the Atlantic Coast Pipeline, which would have transported natural gas across the Appalachian Trail but was canceled after environmental lawsuits led to delays and an increase in the cost of the project.
Last week in Washington, activists from the group Climate Defiance blocked the parking garage entrances to the Energy Department and crashed the holiday party of the American Gas Association, a lobbying group, at a whiskey bar a few blocks from the Capitol.
Michael Greenberg, a spokesman for the group, said he hoped that the pause in permits had slowed the momentum behind Calcasieu Pass 2 and other gas terminals enough that they might eventually be canceled.

But a spokeswoman for Venture Global, the company seeking to build Calcasieu Pass 2, said that it was ready to move ahead.
"It is a highly commercialized project with major long-term contracts to customers in Germany, Japan and more," the spokeswoman, Shaylyn Hynes, said in an email. "We are ready to break ground and are confident the incoming administration will follow the Natural Gas Act and restore what has historically been bipartisan regular order to the LNG export authorization process."
Even if it secures a permit, Calcasieu Pass 2 faces other hurdles. After activists in the southern Louisiana community where the terminal would be built filed a lawsuit complaining that they would be harmed by toxic fumes from the project, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ordered further study of the local environmental impacts of the project, very likely delaying its groundbreaking until after July. A group of more than 170 scientists have called on the administration to block Calcasieu Pass 2.
Natural gas, which is primarily composed of methane, is cleaner than coal when it is burned. But methane is a more potent greenhouse gas in the short term compared with carbon dioxide and it can leak anywhere along the supply chain, from the production wellhead to processing plants to the stovetop. The process of liquefying gas to make it suitable for transport is incredibly energy intensive as well, creating yet more emissions.
Scientists have overwhelmingly said that nations must deeply and quickly cut the emissions from burning gas, oil and coal if humanity is to avoid climate catastrophe. Last year at the United Nations climate summit in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, the United States joined 196 other countries in promising to transition away from fossil fuels.
Fossil fuel companies are confident that Mr. Trump, who is dismissive of global climate agreements, will approve the terminals, even if doing so collides with his pledge to lower energy prices for Americans.
Asked about the proposed export terminals, Karoline Leavitt, a spokeswoman for the Trump transition team, said in an email, "When he takes office, President Trump will make America energy dominant again, protect our energy jobs, and bring down the cost of living for working families."
#176
Early in his term, President Biden seemed to have struck an uneasy truce with the oil and gas industry.
Mr. Biden had imposed restrictions on drilling as part of his ambitious climate agenda, but he also approved an enormous $8 billion oil project in Alaska. The United States had become the world's leading exporter of natural gas, and no other country in history was pumping more crude. The industry was enjoying record profits.
Then, in January, Mr. Biden paused new permits for export facilities for liquefied natural gas.
That decision galvanized oil and gas companies against Mr. Biden, according to industry lobbyists, and will be an undercurrent at a fund-raising lunch set for Wednesday in Houston. The luncheon, organized by three oil executives, will benefit former President Donald J. Trump, who is running to unseat Mr. Biden and is expected to attend, according to several people who have seen the invitation.
To the industry, Mr. Biden's pause on new gas export permits "was a wake-up call," said Thomas J. Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance, which supports the fossil fuel industry. "He could be potentially icing billions of dollars in long-term L.N.G. contracts. That's real. That's tangible."
One of the luncheon hosts is the billionaire Kelcy Lee Warren, who, as executive chairman of Energy Transfer, has built a national network of pipelines, including those serving L.N.G. export facilities. His Dallas-based company, which exports oil and gas products to about 50 countries, tangled with the Biden administration last year when it refused to extend a permit for a proposed export terminal that had run into delays. An indefinite pause on new permits complicates plans by Energy Transfer to continue an ambitious international expansion.
Another host, Harold G. Hamm, the executive chairman and founder of Continental Resources, is one of the pioneers of the shale oil boom that turned the United States into the world's largest crude exporter. Also expected to join is Vicki Hollub, the chief executive of Occidental Petroleum, one of the top U.S. oil producers.
The private luncheon to benefit MAGA Inc., a pro-Trump super PAC, comes about a month after Mr. Trump hosted energy executives over dinner at Mar-a-Lago, his resort in Florida. He asked them to donate $1 billion to his campaign so that he could retake the White House and dismantle Mr. Biden's climate regulations, including the pause on permits.
Mr. Trump's campaign committee, which is separate from any super PAC, has raised $7.3 million from the oil and gas industry since the start of his 2024 campaign, according to data compiled by OpenSecrets, a nonpartisan nonprofit group that tracks campaign finance data. That amount is more than three times what the industry had poured into Mr. Trump's campaign by this period in 2020, the organization found.
By contrast, the oil and gas industry has contributed about $186,000 to Mr. Biden's campaign committee so far this cycle, according to OpenSecrets. Mr. Biden has signed a pledge to not accept contributions of more than $200 from any oil, gas or coal industry executive.
In pausing new permits, Mr. Biden said that he wanted the Energy Department to study the effects of gas exports on national security, the economy and climate change. The move followed a six-month campaign by climate activists to block what would have been the largest gas export terminal in the United States, a project in Louisiana known as known as Calcasieu Pass 2. Also affected by the pause were five other projects that applied to export gas to countries that do not have free-trade agreements with the United States. Even with the pause, the United States is still on track to nearly double its export capacity by 2027 because of projects already permitted and under construction.
Still, it was celebrated as a win by climate activists, an important constituency for the president, who especially needs to shore up support among young voters.
Nations must stop developing new oil and gas fields if global warming is to stay to relatively safe levels, according to the world's leading energy organization, the International Energy Agency. Global emissions from the burning of oil, gas and coal are at a record high and are dangerously heating the planet. In December, the United States was among nearly 200 nations that agreed to transition away from fossil fuels. Mr. Biden has encouraged the rapid development of wind, solar and other nonpolluting energy sources.
Environmental groups from the Louisiana Gulf Coast, where pollution from liquefied natural gas facilities has affected the health of residents, want an outright ban on new exports.
"This L.N.G. pause is a huge deal for climate and environmental justice," said Tiernan Sittenfeld, the senior vice president of government affairs for the League of Conservation Voters. Days after the pause, the environmental group announced a $2 million television campaign days in support of Mr. Biden.
But the pause was "a chilling shot across the bow at the oil and gas industry," said D. Kirk Edwards, a West Texas oil and gas executive and former chairman of the Permian Basin Petroleum Association.
Mr. Edwards voted for Mr. Trump in the past two presidential elections and plans to do so again. He described the L.N.G. pause as "one more in a series of policy hits that have come across from the administration directly aimed at the energy industry in this country."
Mary Landrieu, a former Democratic senator from Louisiana who now lobbies for the gas industry, said the pause had surprised executives. She called it "a setback in the relationship" between gas producers and administration officials, who just months earlier had praised the industry for bolstering its delivery of gas to European nations trying to end their dependence on Russian fuel.
Oil executives like Mr. Hamm said that stalling new L.N.G. terminals sent a message to allies that they couldn't count on U.S. exports and they should seek alternative suppliers. Soon after the pause, Qatar, the world's second-biggest gas exporter, announced plans to step up its production.
Karoline Leavitt, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump's campaign, did not respond to questions about Wednesday's luncheon but said in a statement that Mr. Trump "is supported by people who share his vision of American energy dominance to protect our national security and bring down the cost of living for all Americans."
Ammar Moussa, a spokesman for Mr. Biden's campaign, said in a statement that Mr. Trump "is siding with his greedy Big Oil friends to ship jobs away from the United States and ignore the climate crisis so the next generation suffers."
The oil industry's growing support for Mr. Trump should come as no surprise, Ms. Sittenfeld said.
"Maybe some of these big oil C.E.O.s preferred a different candidate in the primary, but it was clear that they were always going to support the Republican nominee," she said. "They are all about continuing to pad their already enormous profits at the expense of our climate."
Indeed, many of Mr. Trump's deep-pocketed industry supporters, like Mr. Hamm and Mr. Warren, have been in his corner before. In 2020 Mr. Warren gave $10 million to America First Action, a pro-Trump super PAC, according to campaign records. Mr. Hamm, an informal adviser to Mr. Trump during his presidency, donated to some of Mr. Trump's primary rivals last year, but has again embraced the former president.
Mr. Warren's company also has criticized the Biden administration over the 2023 decision by the Department of Energy not to renew Energy Transfer's expired permit to build a L.N.G. terminal on the Louisiana Gulf Coast. In an earnings call last year, Mackie McCrea, the company's co-chief executive, assailed the permit denial as "an arbitrary and capricious political decision."
Asked about the L.N.G. decision and Mr. Warren's participation in the fund-raiser, an Energy Transfer spokeswoman said "he does not comment on his personal activities."
When Mr. Trump asked oil executives at Mar-a-Lago to donate $1 billion, people in the room said the former president told them the money that the industry would save in taxes and legal expenses after he repealed climate regulations would more than make up for the hefty contribution.
At a climate summit held at the Vatican last week, Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, a Democrat, characterized Mr. Trump's suggestion as "open corruption."
House Democrats have opened an inquiry into the dinner. Representative Jamie Raskin of Maryland, the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Accountability, wrote to nine companies that attended the Mar-a-Lago event to ask for information they might have "about quid pro quo financial agreements related to U.S. energy policy that were reportedly proposed at a recent campaign fund-raising dinner with ex-President Donald Trump."
Mr. Raskin wrote to chief executives at Chevron, Exxon Mobil, Continental Resources, Chesapeake Energy, Occidental Petroleum Corp., Venture Global LNG, Cheniere Energy Inc., EQT Corporation and the American Petroleum Institute. Those companies and the A.P.I., a trade group, had representatives at the Mar-a-Lago dinner, according to attendees.
Ms. Landrieu said she was not convinced the gas industry would come out in force for Mr. Trump, and noted the Mar-a-Lago event was billed as an energy round table to discuss policy.
"If any president invited us to speak about energy, they would go," she said. "President Biden could invite them, but he doesn't make the industry feel welcome. It's not like all these companies that went are definitely supporting Donald Trump. They went because he invited them."
#177


Electric heat pumps, the most affordable and energy efficient way to heat and cool homes, continue to outsell gas furnaces nationwide. They can also reduce outdoor pollution and, as a result, save lives, according to a report issued on Tuesday.
The study, by Rewiring America, a nonprofit group that promotes electrification, calculated that if every American household got rid of furnaces, hot water heaters and clothes dryers powered by oil or gas and replaced them with heat pumps and electric appliances, annual greenhouse gas emissions could drop by about 400 million metric tons. Fine airborne particulate matter and other air pollutants could decrease by 300,000 tons, the equivalent of taking 40 million cars off the road.
Roughly two-thirds of the country's households burn fossil fuels such as natural gas, propane and fuel oil for heat, hot water and drying clothes, releasing nitrogen oxides and other pollutants into the air.
While a transition to electric appliances could shave $60 billion off people's annual energy bills, it could also deliver important health rewards, researchers found. It could prevent 3,400 fewer premature deaths per year, 1,300 fewer hospital visits and 220,000 fewer asthma attacks, all of which amounted to about $40 billion in benefits, according to the study.
"Just swapping out appliances, it's eye-opening in terms of the significant impacts," said Wael Kanj, senior research associate with Rewiring America and the lead author on the report.
The amount of pollution reduction would depend on whether the electricity needed was generated by low-carbon sources like wind and solar power or came from gas or coal-fired power plants.
"The report rightly highlights the need to produce clean energy," Rob Jackson, a climate scientist at Stanford University who has researched the health impacts of gas stoves, wrote in an email. "Electrifying our homes will have fewer benefits in West Virginia, where around 90 percent of electricity comes from dirty coal, than in other states with cleaner electricity."
Mr. Kanj said if the grid decarbonized faster than forecast, the pollution reductions and health benefits would increase.
Yifang Zhu, a professor at the U.C.L.A. Fielding School of Public Health and an expert in air pollution, said the ways household appliances affected outdoor air pollution had largely gone understudied and that the new research helped fill in a gap. "Every sector needs to be looked at," she said. "People can realize there are more benefits than just improved indoor air quality by electrifying households."
The effect of gas stoves on indoor air came into sharp focus this past year after a study linked their use to up to 19,000 deaths in the United States and 50,000 cases of childhood asthma.
More American households are moving to heat pumps, which have outsold gas furnaces in recent years and are on pace to do so again in 2024.
The report from Rewiring America, titled "Breathe Easy," drew from data, analyses and reports from a series of government agencies, including the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Census Bureau and the Energy Information Administration.
The American Gas Association, an industry group, contested the findings. A spokeswoman, Emily Carlin, pointed to the association's own research, which found that it cost less to use natural gas in a new home compared to going all-electric. The group's research found that high-efficiency natural gas appliances could yield fewer greenhouse gas emissions compared to an all-electric household and said that reductions in greenhouse gas emissions were similar to that of a heat pump in a colder climate.
The association also highlighted a study funded by the World Health Organization that found no significant increased asthma risk from home gas use compared with electricity, and a lower risk of bronchitis, though that study did find a possible increased risk of pneumonia and obstructive pulmonary disease.
Amy Andryszak, president and chief executive of the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, called the study "inherently flawed" and said its calculations did not include increased costs on an electric grid that would come with getting rid of natural gas. "This is not a serious study, but rather an attempt to secure headlines with the same false and misleading talking points that activists have been using for years," she said.
Under the Inflation Reduction Act, the federal government allocated nearly $9 billion in home energy rebates for electric appliances and energy efficient home retrofits. In 2023, more than 250,000 families claimed federal tax credits for heat pumps and more than 100,000 families claimed credits for heat pump water heaters. President-elect Donald J. Trump has said he wants to repeal the law. It's unclear what that could mean for heat pump adoption, as many of the rebate funds have already been allocated to states.
#178
It was an unlikely scene: Sultan Al Jaber, chairman of one of the world's biggest oil companies, stood before negotiators from nearly 200 nations on Wednesday and heralded a major new climate agreement that pledges to transition the global economy away from fossil fuels.
In language reminiscent of an award acceptance speech, Mr. Al Jaber congratulated the gathered diplomats, and himself, on proving the doubters wrong. After three decades of United Nations climate deals that neglected to even mention fossil fuels like oil and gas, he was presiding over the summit that explicitly targeted the main cause of global warming.
"Many said this could not be done," Mr. Al Jaber said.
Mr. Al Jaber, 50, was a contentious choice to lead the annual climate negotiations, which are normally led by a politician or diplomat from the host country. The United Arab Emirates, this year's host, selected him last January. While he does hold a several government positions, Mr. Al Jaber is largely dedicated to running the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company.
His brusque business style was on display at the summit, as he told negotiators at one point to "work harder, work faster, work smarter." And on Wednesday, just minutes after convening the final meeting, he declared the agreement approved before some diplomats had even reached their seats.
Negotiators from small islands, whose countries are among the most vulnerable to sea-level rise and other climate-fueled extreme weather events, complained that the agreement had been approved without their consent. They pointed out that the global agreement to shift away from fossil fuels lacked specific dates and had plenty of caveats and loopholes.
"It seems that you just gaveled the decision and the small island developing states were not in the room," said Anne Rasmussen, the lead negotiator for a group of 39 small island states, with anger in her voice. "This process has failed us."
Coming into this year's climate summit, the odds of a significant new climate agreement seemed low. Fossil fuel producing countries had managed to keep oil, gas, and, until recently, coal, out of the final declaration at past summits. And Mr. Al Jaber's own company is investing at least $150 billion in expanded drilling over the next five years.
But even some climate advocates who initially saw the appointment of Mr. Al Jaber as risky, if not downright outrageous, said that the final agreement, while flawed in many ways, exceeded their expectations.
"From the beginning he had a lot of aspirational goals that sounded good, but we assumed he didn't have a strategy to back it up," said Alden Meyer, a senior associate at the climate research group E3G who has attended all but one of the past climate summits. "But I've got to give him credit for producing the results. There are lots of problems with the final agreement, but there are also things that do signal this is a pivot point in the transition away from fossil fuels."
His approach wasn't without its detractors. Months before the conference began, more than 100 European and American lawmakers had sought Mr. Al Jaber's removal, saying he was so compromised he could not broker a fair deal to rein in climate change.
And during the conference, many climate activists found it repulsive that a record number of fossil fuel representatives, at least 1,200 of them, attended this year's summit.
Many world leaders and environmentalists also criticized the final climate agreement for being full of caveats that seemingly favored fossil-fuel interests. It encouraged countries to scale up carbon capture, a largely unproven technology favored by oil and gas companies, and it recognized a special role in the energy transition for so-called transitional fuels, seen as code for natural gas.
But others said it was surprising that nearly 200 countries could even agree to a statement that the world should transition away from fossil fuels, given longstanding opposition to such language from major oil-producing countries like Saudi Arabia.
"The way this process is set up, one country can say no to the whole thing," said John Kerry, President Biden's special envoy on climate change. "That actually makes it even more remarkable that this much ambition is contained in this document."
All along, Mr. Al Jaber had argued that he was uniquely suited to the role of bringing about consensus between nations as disparate in their climate aspirations as Saudi Arabia and Vanuatu, a country that scientists say will be subsumed by sea-level rise caused by global warming.
In addition to being an oil executive, Mr. Al Jaber founded the Emirates' leading renewable energy company, which has invested billions of dollars in projects all over the world. But even more important, he said, was his attitude of understanding and inclusion toward fossil fuel producing nations.
In the negotiating rooms cordoned off from the press, his handlers and other negotiators said, an agreement that would call for a transition away from fossil fuels came into view over hours of frenetic shuttle diplomacy between Mr. Al Jaber's team and representatives with nearly diametrically opposite interests.
"In unity and solidarity we will walk a new path that the U.A.E. consensus has set for the world," he said in his speech. "Together we will secure the future of this beautiful planet for the many generations to come."
#179
Sixty nations committed on Tuesday to improve the efficiency of new air-conditioners by 50 percent and reduce greenhouse gas emissions related to those cooling machines by almost 70 percent, the latest in a flurry of global promises that aim to tackle climate change.
The voluntary pledge made at the U.N. climate talks in Dubai was led by the conference hosts, the United Arab Emirates, and confronts a daunting future facing a warming planet: As global temperatures rise, more people will turn to air-conditioners to ward off the heat.
But additional air-conditioning in buildings and other spaces, which is also driven by rising incomes, population growth and urbanization, means that the world could use more than double the electricity it does now to stay cool, leading to more planet-warming emissions, according to research released by the United Nations on Tuesday.
"Extreme heat is now the deadliest weather event in my country at least, but this is true in many other places," said John Kerry, President Biden's climate envoy, who joined representatives from other nations in Dubai to discuss the pledge.
He added that finding ways to cool down in climate-friendly ways was critical. "We want to lay out a pathway to reduce cooling-related emissions across all sectors and increase the access to sustainable cooling."

The surge in electricity use in turn threatens to drive up the very greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming, heating the planet to even more dangerous extremes. Special refrigerant gases used in air-conditioners and refrigerators, when leaked into the atmosphere, are also potent greenhouse gases.
If current trends hold, 10 percent of the world's greenhouse gas emissions in 2050 could come from air-conditioning and other efforts to keep cool, the U.N. report said.
"The cooling sector must grow to protect everyone from rising temperatures," said Inger Andersen, executive director of the United Nations Environment Program. "But this growth must not come at the cost of the energy transition and more intense climate impacts."
Many new advancements and actions - including adopting "passive" cooling technology like improved insulation and reflective surfaces - can help keep the world cooler without significantly increasing energy use, Ms. Andersen said. Bolstering energy efficiency, as well as phasing down climate-warming refrigerant gases, can also help rein in cooling-related emissions, the report said.
There's no question the world needs more cooling. An analysis published this year by a consortium of nonprofits, governments and corporations estimated that 1.2 billion people in 77 countries are at high risk of poor health and livelihoods because of a lack of access to cooling.
Many of the world's most vulnerable people have limited or no access to modern cooling technology, like air-conditioners and refrigerators, at home, at school or at work, the new U.N. report said. Lack of refrigeration also reduces the incomes of millions of farmers and drives food loss, and hinders universal vaccine access.
At the same time, global mean temperatures are rising. This year is "virtually certain" to be the hottest year in recorded history, the World Meteorological Organization announced last week. The past nine years have been the hottest nine in 174 years of recorded scientific observations.
As the planet warms, installed capacity of cooling equipment worldwide will triple by 2050 under current policies, the report estimated. And even with increasingly energy-efficient technology, electricity use will more than double.
That threatens to strain electricity grids, particularly in developing economies. By 2050, 67 percent of cooling capacity will be in developing countries, up from less than 50 percent now, the report said.
Much of the potential for reducing emissions lies in the world's richest economies, according to the report. Adopting building energy codes that explicitly incorporate "passive" cooling, like designs that increase natural shade and ventilation, is particularly effective.
Those passive cooling measures - coupled with faster improvements in energy efficiency and a more stringent phaseout of high-polluting refrigerants, called hydrofluorocarbons - could reduce projected 2050 emissions by more than 60 percent, the authors estimated.
In addition, a rapid transition toward renewable sources of energy like wind and solar to power air-conditioners could further draw down cooling-related emissions.
#180
The political world is understandably focused on the presidential race, which is tighter than ever as Vice President Kamala Harris gains ground on former President Donald J. Trump.
And while whoever occupies the White House for the next four years will have a big impact on the nation's climate policy, a topic that we explored in June, many of the down-ballot races will also be consequential in determining how fast the United States transitions away from fossil fuels. Take, for example, Arizona and Montana, where elections to commissions that regulate utilities will help determine just how fast those states embrace renewable energy.
"Whoever is in the White House matters," said Laurel Javors, associate director for state and local politics at the Sierra Club. "But a lot of climate work also comes down to local elections."
Congress
Of paramount importance, climate activists say, is who controls Congress. The president can only do so much to bend the emissions curve without a House and a Senate that can champion climate policy like the Inflation Reduction Act, which is unleashing billions of dollars in clean energy investment.
With the Senate controlled by Democrats and the House controlled by Republicans, both by narrow margins, congressional elections in November will go a long ways to shaping the next four years of climate action in the U.S.
And in some of the most closely watched races in the country climate is a campaign issue.
In Pennsylvania, Dave McCormick, a former hedge fund executive running as a Republican and challenging Senator Bob Casey, a Democrat, has made fracking a central issue of the campaign. Casey has been an outspoken champion of clean energy, while Mr. McCormick, who has been endorsed by Trump, has pledged to support fracking.
In Montana, Republican Tim Sheehy, a former member of the Navy SEALs who founded an aerial firefighting company, is currently leading the polls in his challenge against Senator Jon Tester, a Democrat. While Tester was among the few Democrats who opposed a 2022 proposal by the Securities and Exchange Commission to require more climate disclosures, he has also been a proponent of the transition to renewable power. Sheehy, meanwhile, has attacked what he calls the "climate cult" and warned that climate action would destroy jobs.
And in the House, there are dozens of competitive races. "The House is on a razor's edge," Javors said. A flip of just a few seats, Javors said, and the House is "back to having pro-climate leadership."
If Democrats manage to maintain control of the Senate, which is no easy task, and win a handful of those House seats, they could control both chambers of Congress. Should Harris win as well, they could pursue ambitious climate policy at the federal level.
State Legislatures
One measure of the importance of local action is the number of Americans living in states with a commitment to achieving 100 percent clean energy. That figure was just 1 percent of the country's population in 2017; today it is 40 percent, a change that was driven by state legislatures and governors, not the White House. There are now 24 states, along with the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, with 100 percent clean energy goals.
"That is driving investment, it's driving research and development and it's getting results," said Pete Maysmith, senior vice president of campaigns for the League of Conservation Voters. "It's taking dirty, polluting fossil fuels off the grid and putting clean, renewable energy on the grid."
Among the most recent states to make such a commitment: Minnesota, where the law was signed into law by Gov. Tim Walz, who is now running for vice president alongside Harris.
Control of the legislatures of several swing states - including Arizona, Michigan, Minnesota, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania - is up for grabs in November.
Governors
In many states, climate action is largely driven by the legislatures. But in some states, governors can use executive authority to advance their priorities. One such state is North Carolina, where Gov. Roy Cooper has gone around a Republican Legislature to try to promote the development of offshore wind, direct state agencies to work together to combat climate change and encourage the adoption of electric vehicles
Cooper, who will be interviewed at our live Climate Forward event on Sep. 25, is term-limited and can't seek re-election. But the two men running in a close race to replace him provide a stark contrast with their views on climate issues.
The Republican, Lt. Gov. Mark Robinson, has called climate change a hoax and pledged to double down on fossil fuels. The Democrat, Attorney General Josh Stein, has sued polluters and suggested he would continue Cooper's strategy of using executive action to address climate issues.
Ten other states will elect their governors in November, but none of the races are as close as the one in North Carolina.
Commissions
Then there are the local entities that regulate energy production. In at least two pivotal states, control of those commissions is up for grabs.
The Arizona Corporation Commission, which sets clean energy minimums for utilities, is currently controlled by Republicans who have not made efforts to expand solar in the state and have pushed back renewable standards, despite abundant sunlight. But six candidates are vying for three open seats, and if Democrats gain control of the commission, it could lead to a significant shift in the state's energy policy.
In Montana, an almost identical dynamic is playing out in the race for seats on the Public Service Commission, which regulates the state's utilities.
With Democrats surging in the polls, Javors of the Sierra Club believes the momentum of the Harris-Walz campaign could have knock-on benefits for climate issues in other races.
"The top of the ticket always drives turnout," Javors said. "We anticipate seeing a lot of momentum toward climate issues."
Extreme heat is closing schools, threatening global education progress
The continued burning of fossil fuels is closing schools around the world for days, sometimes weeks at a time, and threatening to undermine one of the greatest global gains of recent decades: children's education.
Consider the scale of some recent school closures.
Pakistan closed schools for half its students, that's 26 million children, for a full week in May, when temperatures were projected to soar to more than 40 degrees Celsius, or about 104 Fahrenheit. Bangladesh shuttered schools for half its students during an April heat wave, affecting 33 million children. So, too, South Sudan in April. The Philippines ordered school closures for two days, when heat reached what the country's meteorological department called "danger" levels.
And in the United States, heat days prompted school closures or early dismissal in districts from Massachusetts to Colorado during the last school year.
#181
The fight against climate change has taken a body blow with the election of Donald J. Trump, who calls global warming a "scam" and has promised to erase federal efforts to reduce the pollution that is heating the planet.
Mr. Trump told a jubilant crowd Wednesday that the United States, which signed a global agreement last year to transition away from fossil fuels, will instead amp up oil production even beyond current record levels. "We have more liquid gold than any country in the world," said the president-elect, who won with substantial financial support from the oil and gas industry. "More than Saudi Arabia. We have more than Russia."
But Mr. Trump's zeal to repeal the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, the landmark climate law that is pouring more than $390 billion into electric vehicles, batteries and other clean energy technology, will quickly face a political test.
Roughly 80 percent of the money spent so far has flowed to Republican congressional districts, where lawmakers and business leaders want to protect that investment and the jobs they bring.
And voters in some states approved policies to fight climate change, setting up tension between states that want to accelerate climate action and an incoming federal administration that intends to slow it down.
In Washington State, voters upheld an ambitious new law to force polluters to cap their fossil fuel emissions. In California, voters backed a ballot initiative to create a $10 billion "climate bond" for climate and environmental projects.
"No matter what Trump may say, the shift to clean energy is unstoppable and our country is not turning back," said Gina McCarthy, President Biden's former climate adviser who now helps lead America Is All In, a coalition of elected leaders, community groups and businesses promoting climate policies. She called any attempt to overturn the Inflation Reduction Act "a fool's errand."
Former Vice President Al Gore urged climate advocates to keep fighting. "We know the line to solutions is never straight or easy," he said. "But we have won major victories in tackling the climate crisis and reducing climate pollution in our country, and we will again."
States are now likely to become a bulwark against federal efforts to undo climate policy. "The locus of climate action is going to shift to the states," said Martin Lockman, a fellow at the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University. "Unless there is a complete reversal of the Inflation Reduction Act, this is something where climate issues, even in red states where they won't say the word 'climate,' the impact on the ground is undeniable."

Mr. Trump's election comes at a crucial moment in the global effort to fight climate change. Scientists say that by 2030, major economies must reduce their greenhouse gas emissions 50 percent from 2005 levels to avoid tipping into a world wracked by far more devastating impacts of warming, including famine, displacement, drought, deaths from extreme heat and storms.
Under Mr. Biden's policies, the United States was on track to cut roughly 40 percent of its emissions by that date.
Mr. Trump's likely policies to encourage more drilling and burning of oil and gas would add four billion tons of greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere, according to a study by Carbon Brief, a climate analysis site.
The president-elect has taken particular relish in describing how he plans to "kill" the Biden administration's largest climate rule, which is designed to accelerate Americans' transition away from polluting gasoline-powered cars and into electric vehicles. He also intends to reverse another powerful regulation aimed at reducing emissions from power plants, along with dozens of other rules that protect endangered species and limit other kinds of air and water pollution.
The oil and gas industry called Tuesday's election a clear rejection of Mr. Biden's climate policies and an embrace of an energy policy that centers on fossil fuels.
"Our long national nightmare with the Green New Deal is finally over because energy was on the ballot in 2024, and energy won," Daniel Turner, the executive director for Power the Future, a fossil fuel advocacy group, said in a statement.
"Let these results serve as a warning to any other politician who feels the green agenda is more important than families," he said.
If Republicans win full control of Congress, it increases the chances that Mr. Trump could jettison parts of the Inflation Reduction Act - things like tax credits for consumers to buy electric vehicles, electric heat pumps and other technology that reduces greenhouse gases.
Thomas J. Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance, a conservative research group focused on energy, said Mr. Trump has a mandate to prioritize fossil fuels. "The decisiveness of the victory gives President Trump the ability to really be aggressive in terms of what he wants to achieve," he said.
During his first term in his office, Mr. Trump's administration rolled back more than 100 major environmental rules and regulations, including every major Obama-era climate regulation. He withdrew the United States from the 2015 Paris climate accord, under which 195 nations had committed to work together to reduce planet-warming fossil fuel pollution.
Mr. Biden spent four years restoring, expanding and strengthening those protections. He rejoined the Paris agreement and pledged to the rest of the world that the United States, the world's largest fossil fuel polluter historically, would be a reliable leader in the effort to tackle climate change. The Inflation Reduction Act was the nation's first law to significantly reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
Much of that legacy could soon be shredded.
"We're already not doing enough to meet the targets to avoid dangerous climate change, and we're already seeing the consequences worldwide - more intense heat waves that kill people, more intense rainstorms of the kind we saw in Spain last week, more intense hurricanes," said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs at Princeton University.
"If Trump blows up Biden's climate change regime, and we don't get global climate under control, the prospect of a robust economic future with growth and economic opportunity for everyone - all of that shrivels away and becomes less and less likely," he said.
Mandy Gunasekara, who served as chief of staff to the Environmental Protection Agency administrator during the first Trump administration, said career employees should "be prepared for structural changes" at the agency.
"If there's offices that don't tangibly support the agency's mission, then they're going to be heavily scrutinized as to whether it makes sense to keep them functioning and operational," she said.
As for tackling climate change, which has been a priority for the E.P.A. under the Biden administration, Ms. Gunasekara said, "It's not going to be a source of hyperbole, but it will likely be one of many environmental issues the agency is working to reasonably address."
In five days, delegations from around the world will convene in Baku, Azerbaijan, for the annual United Nations climate summit, called COP29. The Biden administration is widely expected to try to assure the rest of the world that states and local governments in the United States will continue the work of slashing emissions, even if the federal government turns away.
As he did during his first term, Mr. Trump is expected to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris climate agreement. His allies are exploring whether Mr. Trump could also remove the country from the underlying treaty that allows America to take part in global climate negotiations. That could make it harder for a future president to rejoin the accord as it may require Senate approval.
Laurence Tubiana, France's former climate ambassador and one of the architects of the Paris agreement, insisted that the Paris accord "is stronger than any single country's policies."
She said that in the nine years since the agreement was signed, many nations have heavily invested in solar, wind, nuclear and other non-carbon forms of energy. There is economic momentum behind renewable power, she said, and by spurning it, the United States would risk forfeiting the future.
"Europe now has the responsibility and opportunity to step up and lead," she said.
Ms. Gunasekara said she doubted that Mr. Trump would bother sending a statement to the U.N. summit this year. "It's not a priority of the president and his team right now."
#182
Jamal Lewis's path to climate work started when he came close to losing his life.
In 2014, Mr. Lewis, a Maryland native, was a student at the University of Pennsylvania, pursuing a communications major and playing basketball, when he developed a staph infection in his bloodstream. Doctors put him into a medically induced coma for six days. He said he came so close to death that his parents were told to call in the family to say goodbye.
When he woke up, he said, he had a clearer sense of what was important and decided to change his life's focus.
"I switched my major while I was in the hospital bed to environmental science, and that was a decision that I made to pour myself into things that actually made me happy," Mr. Lewis said.
He decided to devote himself to helping people suffering the harmful effects of toxic chemicals and fumes in their homes, a problem that he had never thought about much.
After college, he earned a masters in public health at Columbia University, focusing on environmental health. He joined Rewiring America, a nonprofit group founded in 2020 that is dedicated to electrifying homes and businesses around the country, and he is now a senior director of implementation learning and integration. The organization's stated mission is to convert the 1 billion fossil-fuel-powered machines in the country to electric alternatives, and last year the voting rights activist Stacey Abrams became its senior counsel.
Both Mr. Lewis and another Changemaker, Aloja Airewele, are focusing on ways to electrify homes and businesses to reduce emissions. At the same time, both are trying to help communities that are struggling with the effects of racism, poverty, neglect and marginalization.
"The people that live in the oldest and most unhealthy homes are often low-income, Black and brown communities, rural, tribal, and those are the people that can benefit from these resources," Mr. Lewis said.
Mr. Airewele, a pastor who lives in Ithaca, N.Y., is using his city's climate goals to try to help people he believes are at risk of being left behind.
Since 2014, he has been running a program called Energy Warriors, based out of the Cornell Cooperative Extension in Tompkins County, which trains participants at juvenile detention centers in how to install heat pumps, induction stoves and better insulation.
But after Ithaca passed a Green New Deal resolution in 2019 that committed itself to reaching carbon neutrality by 2030, Mr. Airewele expanded the program to include other disadvantaged groups, including formerly incarcerated adults.
Mr. Airewele said that 23 people had graduated from the program and that 14 of them had jobs helping to electrify buildings. The program has expanded to teach local residents environmental literacy skills.
The Inflation Reduction Act invested at least $370 billion in rebates and tax incentives for clean energy projects, including electrifying American homes and businesses. And though Ithaca received significant attention when it announced its climate goals in 2019, Mr. Airewele and Mr. Lewis both said their biggest challenge was a lack of awareness about the incentives available to consumers.
"We still haven't got that huge momentum that we are looking for, which is, say 100 homes want to be decarbonized every month," Mr. Airewele said. With that level of demand, he said he could include far more participants in the program.
For Mr. Lewis, it's a matter of who gets to benefit from electrification right now.
"I want everyone, literally everyone, to have access to that transition," he said.
Aside from the rebates, Mr. Lewis said it could be empowering for anyone to play a role in reducing emissions. (Rewiring America offers advice for both renters and owners.) He pointed to a Department of Energy study by one of Rewiring America's founders that showed almost half of energy-related emissions in the United States come from consumer decisions.
#183
The United States is experiencing scorching new levels of heat fueled by climate change this summer, with dozens of people dying in the West, millions sweating under heat advisories and nearly three-quarters of Americans saying the government must prioritize global warming.
But as the Republican Party opens its national convention in Milwaukee with a prime-time focus on energy on Monday night, the party has no plan to address climate change.
While some Republicans no longer deny the overwhelming scientific consensus that the planet is warming because of human activity, party leaders do not see it as a problem that needs to be addressed.
"I don't know that there is a Republican approach to climate change as an organizing issue," said Thomas J. Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance, a conservative research group focused on energy. "I don't think President Trump sees reducing greenhouse gases, using the government to do so, as an imperative."
When former President Donald J. Trump mentions climate change at all, it is mockingly.
"Can you imagine, this guy says global warming is the greatest threat to our country?" Mr. Trump said, referring to President Biden as he addressed a rally in Chesapeake, Va., last month, the hottest June in recorded history across the globe. "Global warming is fine. In fact, I heard it was going to be very warm today. It's fine."
He went on to dismiss the scientific evidence that melting ice sheets in Antarctica and Greenland are causing seas to rise, threatening coastal communities around the world.
"The ocean will rise, maybe, and it may go down, also," Mr. Trump said. "But it may rise one eighth of an inch in the next 497 years, they say, one eighth, which gives you a little bit more waterfront property if you're lucky enough to own." In fact, sea levels are estimated to rise as much as 33 inches by the end of the century, according to top scientists. And if the Antarctic ice sheet collapses, experts said global sea levels could rise by more than 10 feet.
At the televised debate with Mr. Biden in June, Mr. Trump was asked if he would take any action as president to slow the climate crisis. "I want absolutely immaculate clean water and I want absolutely clean air, and we had it," Mr. Trump responded, without answering the question.
Mr. Trump's spokeswoman, Karoline Leavitt, later declined to clarify the former president's position or discuss any actions he would take regarding climate change, saying only that he wants "energy dominance."
The United States last year pumped more crude oil than any country in history and is now the world's biggest exporter of natural gas.
A clear majority of Americans, 65 percent, wants the country to focus on increasing solar, wind and other renewable energy and not fossil fuels, according to a May survey by the Pew Research Center. But just 38 percent of Republicans surveyed said renewable energy should be prioritized, while 61 percent said the country should focus on developing more oil, gas and coal.
"Their No. 1 agenda is to continue producing fossil fuels," said Andrew Dessler, a professor of atmospheric sciences and the director of the Texas Center for Climate Studies at Texas A&M University. "Once you understand their main goal is to entrench fossil fuels regardless of anything else, everything makes sense."
The party platform, issued last week, makes no mention of climate change. Instead, it encourages more production of oil, gas and coal, the burning of which is dangerously driving up global temperatures. "We will DRILL, BABY, DRILL," it says, referring to oil as "liquid gold."
By contrast, Mr. Biden has taken the most aggressive action of any president to cut emissions from coal, oil and gas and encourage a transition to wind, solar and other carbon-free energy. He has directed every federal agency from the Agriculture Department to the Pentagon to consider how climate change is affecting their core missions.
If Mr. Biden has taken an all-of-government approach to fighting climate change, Mr. Trump and his allies would adopt the opposite: scrubbing "climate" from all federal functions and promoting fossil fuels.
Mr. Trump and his allies want to end federal subsidies for electric vehicles, battery development and the wind and solar industries, preferring instead to open up the Alaskan wilderness to oil drilling, encourage more offshore drilling and expand gas export terminals.
Project 2025, a lengthy manual filled with specific proposals for a next Republican administration, calls for erasing any mention of climate change across the government. While Mr. Trump has recently sought to distance himself from Project 2025, he has praised its architects at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization, and much of the plan was written by people who were top advisers during his first term and could serve in prominent roles if he wins in November.
When pressed to discuss climate change, some Republicans say the country should produce more natural gas and sell it to other countries as a cleaner replacement for coal.
While natural gas produces less carbon dioxide than coal when burned, it remains one of the sources of the greenhouse gases that are driving climate change. Scientists say that countries must stop burning coal, oil and gas to keep global warming to relatively safe levels. Last year, at the United Nations climate summit in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, the United States and nearly 200 countries agreed to transition away from fossil fuels.
But if elected, Mr. Trump has indicated he would pull back from the global fight against climate change, as he did when he announced in 2017 that the United States would be the first and only country to withdraw from the Paris Agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions. (The United States subsequently rejoined under Mr. Biden.)
And it's possible he would go even further. Mr. Trump's former aides said that if he wins in November, he would remove the country altogether from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the international body that works on climate policy and created the 2015 Paris deal.
When it comes to international relations, Project 2025 calls for an end to spending federal funds to help the world's poorest countries transition to wind, solar and other renewable energy.
The blueprint also calls for erasing climate change as a national security concern, despite research showing rising sea levels, extreme weather and other consequences of global temperature rise are destabilizing areas of the world, affecting migration and threatening American military installations.
Federal research into climate change would slow or disappear under Project 2025, which recommends dismantling the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which conducts some of the world's leading climate research and is also responsible for weather forecasting and tracking the path of hurricanes and other storms.
NOAA, according to the authors of Project 2025, is "one of the main drivers of the climate change alarm industry and, as such, is harmful to future U.S. prosperity." At the agency's research operation, which include a network of research laboratories, an undersea research center, and several joint research institutes with universities, "the preponderance of its climate-change research should be disbanded," the blueprint said.
Project 2025 also calls for the president to issue an executive order to "reshape" the program that convenes 13 federal agencies every four years to produce the National Climate Assessment, the country's most authoritative analysis of climate knowledge. The report is required by Congress and details the impacts and risks of climate change to a wide range of sectors, including agriculture, health care and transportation. It is used by the public, researchers and officials around the country to inform decisions about strategies and spending.
Project 2025 also calls for the elimination of offices at the Department of Energy dedicated to developing wind, solar and other renewable energy.
Waleed Abdalati, a former NASA chief scientist who is now at the University of Colorado Boulder, said downgrading climate science would be a disservice to the nation. "That's a loss of four years in pursuit of creative solutions," he said.
As president, Mr. Trump tried to replace top officials with political appointees who denied the existence of climate change and put pressure on federal scientists to water down their conclusions. Scientists refused to change their findings and attempts by the Trump administration to bury climate research were also not successful.
"Thank God they didn't know how to run a government," Thomas Armstrong, who led the National Climate Assessment program under the Obama administration, said at the end of Mr. Trump's presidency, adding, "It could have been a lot worse."
Next time, they would know how to run the government, Mr. Trump's former officials said. "The difference between the last time and this time is, Donald Trump was president for four years," Mr. Pyle said. "He will be more prepared."
#184
At the heart of the Biden administration's efforts to advance clean energy is a $400 billion lending program that has backed dozens of projects across the nation, including battery factories in Ohio and Tennessee, the revival of a shuttered nuclear reactor in Michigan and a novel rooftop solar expansion in Puerto Rico.
Now, the Loan Programs Office at the Department of Energy is hustling to get money out the door before Donald J. Trump returns to the White House.
Mr. Trump hasn't outlined his plans for the Energy Department. But some Republicans in Congress and advisers like Vivek Ramaswamy are already scrutinizing the loan office as they hunt for ways to slash federal spending. The conservative policy blueprint known as Project 2025 recommended that the loan office be "eliminated or reformed."
Facing the prospect of drastic changes, the Biden administration has been working to finalize as many loans as possible before the changeover in January.
Under President Biden, the office has announced roughly $54 billion in loans or loan guarantees, which is still just a small portion of its lending authority. Of that, $19 billion was announced in the weeks after the election, including a conditional loan to help Rivian build an electric car factory in Georgia and a loan guarantee for an enormous power line in the Midwest.
Yet the office has closed only $13.5 billion of the deals to date - the rest are conditional commitments that could be delayed or halted by a new administration.
"They see the writing on the wall," said Kennedy Nickerson, a former policy adviser to the loan programs office and now a vice president for energy at Capstone, a research firm. "They want to get out as much money as possible just to safeguard as much progress as they can."
Some companies worry about being left in limbo.
"We'd prefer to get this done sooner rather than later," said Andy Marsh, chief executive of Plug Power, a company that aims to convert renewable electricity into hydrogen fuels. In May, Plug received a conditional commitment for a $1.6 billion loan guarantee to build up to six facilities, but it has yet to finalize the deal. "It's easier to keep the momentum going if we don't have to start all over with a new team."
EVgo, an electric car charging company that was awarded a $1 billion loan guarantee in October, said in a statement that it was "working diligently" to close its deal.
The election results loomed over an annual gathering convened by the loan program in Washington this week, where 1,800 people across the clean energy industry discussed everything from electric car charging networks to sustainable aviation fuels.
Many executives said they hoped that the Trump administration would keep the loan program running. Even if the office de-emphasized climate change, it would still have hundreds of billions of dollars in loan authority left to support technologies like nuclear power or critical mineral mining that could boost U.S. energy security and reduce reliance on China, they said.
"If we have any sort of significant slowdown over the next four years, China is going to have our lunch, dinner and breakfast," said James Calaway, the chairman of Ioneer, a firm trying to open a lithium mine in Nevada with the help of a not-yet-final $700 million federal loan. (China currently dominates global production of lithium, a key ingredient in batteries.)
Building New Industries
The Loan Programs Office was created in 2005 to help emerging energy technologies, which often have trouble getting conventional financing, become commercially viable. It gained notoriety after it lent $535 million in 2009 to Solyndra, a solar firm that went bankrupt two years later. But it also gave a crucial $465 million loan in 2010 to Tesla, which later grew into an electric vehicle powerhouse.
Mostly dormant during the first Trump administration, the office was revived under President Biden. It initially had $40 billion in loan authority, but that ballooned to more than $400 billion in 2022 when Congress passed the Inflation Reduction Act.
Jigar Shah, an outspoken former solar entrepreneur who has called clean energy the "largest wealth-creation opportunity of our lifetime," has led the office over the past four years and used its financial muscle to reshape the American energy landscape.
The program has access to thousands of experts at the Energy Department who can scrutinize novel technologies that commercial banks find too bewildering.
In recent years, it has focused on building up a domestic supply chain for electric vehicles to counteract China's stranglehold on battery production. More than half of the office's deals since 2021 - almost $34 billion - have gone toward electric vehicle and battery factories or companies that produce key components like graphite.
Mr. Shah says the country is on track to have enough battery manufacturing to supply growing domestic sales, up from almost nothing four years ago. "It was so impressive, from a standing stop, how fast this happened," he said in an interview Thursday.
The office has also backed novel technologies that could ultimately prove valuable, such as a plant in South Dakota that could turn cornstarch into jet fuel, or a company that uses lasers to spot methane leaks from oil and gas wells.
This week, the office finalized a $303 million loan guarantee to Eos Energy, a Pennsylvania-based firm that makes a zinc-based battery for electric grids that can store power longer than conventional lithium-ion batteries.
"It's great to have that done," said Joe Mastrangelo, the chief executive of Eos. He said the process of being vetted by the office was "arduous," but that doing so helped validate the technology to investors.
Mr. Shah had even bigger plans for the future. The loan office is still reviewing 212 applications worth $324 billion and has released detailed road maps - written in conjunction with industry - for scaling up technologies like advanced nuclear power, geothermal and smarter electric grids.
But much of that work will be left for the next administration.
An Uncertain Future
Some experts wonder if a Trump administration might retain the program but reorient it to serve a different agenda. That could mean less money for electric vehicles, which Mr. Trump has bashed, and more money for technologies like carbon capture or geothermal, which some of Mr. Trump's energy advisers have supported.
"It's very obvious that doing big things is a bipartisan effort," Mr. Shah said. "I'm super excited about how much interest there is from the incoming administration to keep a lot of this going, whether it's doing nuclear, enhanced geothermal, carbon capture, aviation fuels."
Asked about the Trump administration's plans, Karoline Leavitt, a spokeswoman for the transition team, said in an email that "the Department of Energy led by Chris Wright will roll back the Biden administration's burdensome regulations on our energy industry and ensure every taxpayer dollar at the agency is being used to deliver on President Trump's promise to restore America's energy dominance."
Some companies that haven't finalized their loans say their projects should hold bipartisan appeal.
In Indiana, Wabash Valley Resources is planning to produce low-carbon fertilizer by burying the emissions from its factory 7,000 feet underground. The company has received a conditional commitment for a $1.5 billion loan guarantee, but it might not be finalized before January.
"I can see why some people worry, but we don't worry," said Nalin Gupta, the company's chief executive. "We think this project will sell itself," he said, adding that it would help reduce ammonia imports from China and help revitalize a former coal community that was carried by Mr. Trump in November.
Some lawmakers have criticized the loan office for picking up its pace. On Wednesday, three House Republicans sent a letter to Mr. Shah demanding that it "cease its campaign to quickly distribute federal funding before the incoming administration takes office."
"The last-minute drive to expedite loans exposes the federal government - and American taxpayers - to tremendous risk," said the letter, which originated with Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Republican of Washington, who leads the House Committee on Energy and Commerce.
Mr. Shah said his office was not loosening its controls in the waning days. "Our process remains the same," he said. "We continue to do everything with a fine-toothed comb. But right now, borrowers are sufficiently motivated to move more quickly."
The loan office is profitable, with losses of just 3 percent, in line with commercial banks. Mr. Shah has said the office learned its lessons from Solyndra and installed more safeguards.
Mr. Shah expects that much of the loan office's work will prove durable. Many of the 212 applicants still seeking hundreds of billions of dollars in loans are in Republican-controlled states and are pursuing solutions to problems that both parties are concerned about like the rapid growth in electricity demand.
"What these companies are doing is so important that I just think it'll be unstoppable," Mr. Shah said.
#185
Former President Donald J. Trump told a group of oil executives and lobbyists gathered at a dinner at his Mar-a-Lago resort last month that they should donate $1 billion to his presidential campaign because, if elected, he would roll back environmental rules that he said hampered their industry, according to two people who were there.
About 20 people attended an April 11 event billed as an "energy round table" at Mr. Trump's private club, according to those people, who asked not to be identified in order to discuss the private event. Attendees included executives from ExxonMobil, EQT Corporation and the American Petroleum Institute, which lobbies for the oil industry.
The event was organized by the oil billionaire Harold Hamm, who has for years helped to shape Republican energy policies. It was first reported by The Washington Post.
Mr. Trump has publicly railed for months against President Biden's energy and environmental agenda, as Mr. Biden has raced to restore and strengthen dozens of climate and conservation rules that Mr. Trump had weakened or erased while in office. In particular, Mr. Trump has promised to eliminate Mr. Biden's new climate rules intended to accelerate the nation's transition to electric vehicles, and to push a "drill, baby, drill" agenda aimed at opening up more public lands to oil and gas exploration.
Mr. Biden has called climate change an existential threat and has moved to cut the pollution that is dangerously heating the planet and supercharging storms, heat waves and drought.
Over a dinner of chopped steak, Mr. Trump repeated his public promises to delete Mr. Biden's pollution controls, telling the attendees that they should donate heavily to help him beat Mr. Biden because his policies would help their industries.
"That has been his pitch to everybody," said Michael McKenna, who worked in the Trump White House but did not attend the event in Florida.
Mr. McKenna said the former president's appeal to the fossil fuel industry could be summed up as: "Look, you want me to win. You might not even like me, but your other choice is four more years of these guys," referring to the Biden administration. He added, "The uniform sentiment of guys in the business community is 'We don't want four more years of Team Biden.'"
Karoline Leavitt, a spokeswoman for the Trump campaign, did not address the specifics of what Mr. Trump was described as saying at the dinner. In a statement, she attacked President Biden as controlled "by environmental extremists who are trying to implement the most radical energy agenda in history and force Americans to purchase electric vehicles they can't afford," and that Mr. Trump is "supported by people who share his vision of American energy dominance to protect our national security and bring down the cost of living for all Americans."

Mr. Biden's presidential campaign on Thursday accused Mr. Trump of "straight up selling out working families for campaign donations from oil barons."
Mr. Biden has frustrated the fossil fuel industry by pursuing the most ambitious climate agenda in the nation's history. He has signed a sweeping law that pumps $370 billion into incentives for clean energy and electric vehicles and has enacted a suite of tough regulations designed to sharply reduce emissions from the burning of oil, gas and coal.
This year, the Biden administration paused the permitting process for new facilities that export liquefied natural gas in order to study their impact on climate change, the economy and national security.
But the fossil fuel industry has also enjoyed record profits under the Biden administration. Last year, the United States produced record amounts of oil. And even with the pause in new permits for gas export terminals, the United States is the world's leading exporter of natural gas and is still on track to nearly double its export capacity by 2027 because of projects already permitted and under construction.
Mr. Biden has also approved several oil and gas projects sought by the fossil fuel industry.
He has authorized an enormous $8 billion oil development in Alaska known as the Willow project. He also granted a crucial permit for the Mountain Valley Pipeline, a project championed by Senator Joe Manchin III, a West Virginia Democrat, despite opposition from climate experts and environmental groups. Last month, undeterred by opposition from climate activists, the Biden administration also gave approval for an oil export project in Texas known as the Sea Port Oil Terminal.
Some oil and gas executives have said that they would prefer some of Mr. Biden's regulations to remain, such as a rule requiring companies to detect and stop methane leaks from oil and gas wells. They said they wanted consistency rather than an endless pattern of regulatory whiplash in which rules are enacted by one administration, repealed by the next and restored by the one after that.
Many, however, have attacked Mr. Biden's policies, and the industry has contributed heavily to Mr. Trump's presidential campaign.
Part of the meeting dwelled on migration, and Mr. Trump declared he wanted separate divisions of Ultimate Fighting Championship fighters: one designated for immigrants who came across the border illegally, and the other for "Americans."
The room was filled predominantly with oil and gas executives, including Mike Sabel, the chief executive and founder of Venture Global LNG; Toby Rice, the president and chief executive of EQT Corporation; Jack Fusco, the chief executive of Cheniere Energy; and Nick Dell'Osso, the president of Chesapeake Energy.
Also in the room were Doug Burgum, the governor of North Dakota and a former Republican presidential candidate who has been acting as Mr. Trump's point man on energy issues; and Mr. Hamm, the billionaire executive chairman of Continental Resources, which is among the biggest oil and gas drilling companies in Oklahoma and North Dakota.
Accompanied by Susie Wiles, his top political adviser; Taylor Budowich, a former aide; and Meredith O'Rourke, a fund-raiser, Mr. Trump asked the executives to detail their concerns on energy issues, according to the two attendees.
The American Petroleum Institute, the nation's top fossil fuel industry group, is running an eight-figure national advertising campaign to promote fossil fuels and "dismantle policy threats," Mike Sommers, the chief executive of the trade group, has said. Separately, the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers, which represents petroleum refiners, has started to buy ads in nine battleground states urging Americans to fight Mr. Biden's regulation on tailpipe emissions.
And states with Republican attorneys general have filed legal challenges against most if not all of Mr. Biden's regulations, including a suit announced on Thursday by 27 states arguing that the administration overstepped its authority in cracking down on smokestack pollution from power plants.
But Mr. Trump told executives they were not fighting hard enough. He also went on a rant about windmills, the attendees said. Mr. Trump has falsely claimed that wind turbines cause cancer and that offshore wind farms are "driving whales crazy."
Mr. Trump did not request money in exchange for killing Mr. Biden's climate regulations, the two people in the room maintained. Rather, the former president told executives that he was determined to squash what he considered anti-business policies, and that the oil industry should therefore want him to win and should raise $1 billion to ensure his success.
He told the executives that the amount of money they would save in taxes and legal expenses after he repealed regulations would more than cover a billion dollar contribution, the people said.
Mr. Hamm has had Mr. Trump's ear on energy issues dating back to the former president's 2016 campaign and pushed him to appoint Scott Pruitt to run the Environmental Protection Agency, where Mr. Pruitt denied the established science of climate change and unraveled environmental protections.
After Mr. Trump lost the 2020 election, Mr. Hamm briefly supported some of the former president's rivals, including Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida and former United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley. But the oil tycoon appeared to have had a change of heart. Mr. Hamm donated $3,300 to Mr. Trump's campaign last year, the maximum allowed for a primary contribution, and another $3,300 in March, according to campaign filings.
Mr. Hamm did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Mr. McKenna said Mr. Hamm continued to play an outsize role in Mr. Trump's energy policy. "If Harold has an idea, the rest of us have to chase it around," he said. "Harold Hamm wants that L.N.G. pause gone, he wants the California waiver and the tailpipe rule gone."
California has for decades received waivers under the Clean Air Act that authorize it to set environmental rules that are tougher than federal regulations. To do business in California, automakers and other industries must comply with its rules. Mr. Trump has promised to revoke California's waivers.
#186
Can you talk about the health impacts of climate change without mentioning the burning of fossil fuels, its leading cause?
An intergovernmental declaration on the health impacts of climate change led by the United Arab Emirates, which is presiding over this year's global climate talks, and circulated among countries for their potential endorsement, does just that.
Several public health experts sent an open letter Tuesday to Sultan al-Jaber, the U.A.E. oil company executive presiding over the talks, urging him to "commit to an accelerated, just and equitable phaseout of fossil fuels and invest in a renewable energy transition."
It's a prelude to one big fight likely to take place at this year's United Nations Climate Change Conference, pitting the Persian Gulf petrostate hosting the talks against leading public health experts.
"A full and rapid phaseout of fossil fuels is the most significant way to provide the clean air, water, and environment that are foundational to good health," the letter continued. Its signatories include the heads of the International Council of Nurses, the international chapter of Doctors Without Borders and a consortium of health ministers from six Latin American countries.
The World Health Organization also recently called for "an acceleration in the phaseout of fossil fuels."
Mr. al-Jaber, speaking to diplomats gathered in Abu Dhabi this week for preparatory meetings, acknowledged the "strong views about the idea of including language on fossil fuels" in the conference declarations. "We must be responsible," he said. "We must be real. We must be true to the facts. We must be pragmatic."
Public health is on the agenda for the first time at the climate talks that have taken place under the auspices of the United Nations every year since 1995. The declaration, prepared by the U.A.E. with input from other countries, commits countries to "prevent worsening health impacts from climate change," help health systems adapt to climate-sensitive diseases and encourage them to reduce emissions from the health sector.
"We recognize the urgency of taking action on climate change, and note the benefits for health from deep, rapid, and sustained reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, including from just transitions, lower air pollution, active mobility, and shifts to sustainable healthy diets," the text reads, without any mention of coal, oil or gas, the combustion of which causes air pollution and is increasing global temperatures.
The fight over fossil fuel language is likely to animate almost every aspect of this round of climate talks.
Climate activists have increasingly sharpened their message to call for an end to new oil and gas projects. A handful of countries, calling themselves the High Ambition Coalition, want nations to "phase out fossil fuel production and use."
In fact, investments in oil and gas are surging, including by the state-owned oil company that Mr. al-Jaber heads, known as ADNOC.
Mr. al-Jaber, who also chairs the Emirates' biggest renewable energy company, has said he hoped that all countries would agree to a global goal of tripling renewable energy by 2030, and transition to "an energy system that is free of unabated fossil fuels."
That "unabated" language, supported by the United States and the European Union, implies that fossil fuel production can continue so long as its emissions are captured. The problem is that wide-scale adoption of that kind of carbon capture technology remains a distant possibility for now.
In their letter to Mr. al-Jaber, the public health experts also took aim at the fossil fuel industry, accusing it of a "decades-long campaign of obstructing climate action."
#187
Three of the nation's largest automakers, Ford, General Motors and Stellantis, are strategizing with other car manufacturers on how to make a delicate request of President-elect Donald J. Trump: Don't scrap the federal regulations that compel the industry to sell electric vehicles.
The conversation would require diplomatic finesse. Mr. Trump has railed against the E.V. rules, which strictly limit the amount of tailpipe pollution while also ramping up fuel economy standards. They are designed to get carmakers to produce more E.V.s and have been a cornerstone of President Biden's fight against climate change.
Mr. Trump sees them differently. He has falsely said the rules amount to a Democratic mandate that would prevent Americans from buying the gasoline-powered cars of their choice - a concern of his campaign donors from the oil industry.
And Mr. Trump still holds grievances against some of the automakers, whom he views as having betrayed him because during his first term they supported Obama-era auto emissions rules.
In fact, most automakers don't love the more stringent rules Mr. Biden put in place. But they have already invested billions in a transition to electric vehicles, and fear that if Mr. Trump made an abrupt change as he has promised, they could be undercut by automakers who sell cheaper, gas-powered cars. They argue it would harm an industry that is a backbone of American manufacturing and employs 1.1 million people.
Lobbyists and officials from several car companies say the automakers want the Biden regulations to remain largely intact, with some changes such as more time for compliance and lower penalties for companies that don't meet the requirements.
One wild card in negotiations is Elon Musk, the top Trump adviser and chief executive of Tesla, which accounts for half of electric vehicle sales in the United States.
In a previously unreported Nov. 12 letter to Mr. Trump, John Bozzella, president of the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, which represents 42 car companies that produce nearly all the new vehicles sold in the United States, wrote that in order for the auto industry to remain "successful and competitive," it needed "stability and predictability in auto-related emissions standards."
Transportation is the sector of the U.S. economy that produces the most greenhouse gases - pollution that is dangerously heating the planet. The Obama administration was the first to limit tailpipe emissions of such pollution. During his first term, Mr. Trump effectively erased those rules, replacing them with standards that were little more than business as usual.
Mr. Biden restored and, with input from the automakers, significantly strengthened the tailpipe rules, making them the biggest regulations enacted by the federal government to fight climate change. The regulations affect vehicles starting in model year 2027 and grow more stringent through 2032. Automakers could comply by selling a mix of gasoline-burning cars, hybrids, E.V.s or other types of vehicles, such as cars powered by hydrogen.
The E.P.A. estimates that compliance with the rule would mean that by 2032, about 56 percent of new passenger vehicles sold would be electric and another 16 percent would be hybrids, up from about 9 percent and 11 percent today, respectively. Car companies that don't meet the new restrictions could face substantial penalties or could purchase "emissions credits" from companies that have exceeded the standards by selling more E.V.s.
Tesla, which makes only electric vehicles, has earned billions of dollars by selling emissions credits to other automakers, collecting $2.1 billion in the first nine months of this year alone, which was 43 percent of its net profit, according to regulatory filings. During Tesla's early years, the credits were a critical source of revenue that probably prevented the company from going bankrupt, analysts say.
Electric vehicle supporters had hoped that Mr. Musk would persuade Mr. Trump to retain the E.V. rules. But that seems unlikely; he is now poised to lead the Trump administration's initiative to reduce regulations.
And Mr. Musk is more focused on removing government obstacles to self-driving cars, which he has described as central to Tesla's future, said people familiar with his thinking, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss it.
As for the emissions standards, Tesla prepared in advance for their elimination, said Rohan Patel, who served as vice president of global policy for Tesla before stepping down earlier this year. "They predicted that if a Republican won, no matter how influential Elon was, the rule would be weakened for sure or potentially go away," he said.
Mr. Musk has also made clear that he will not fight to preserve the $7,500 tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles that is provided by the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act. The credit has helped to make E.V.s competitive with gas-powered vehicles and has been a particular target of Mr. Trump's.
"In my view, we should end all government subsidies, including those for E.V.'s, oil and gas," Mr. Musk said on X last week.
Getting rid of the $7,500 tax credit may damage Tesla, but it would hurt Ford, GM and others more, Mr. Musk said during an earnings call in July. "I think it would be devastating for our competitors and for Tesla slightly," he said.
That is almost certainly true for several reasons, auto industry analysts said.
One is the scale of investment that American carmakers have made in electric vehicles. Ford, G.M., Stellantis and others have invested about $146 billion over the past three years in the design, engineering and manufacturing of electric vehicles, according to the Center for Automotive Research, a nonprofit organization in Ann Arbor, Mich.
For example, there were fewer than half a dozen E.V. battery plants in the United States when Mr. Trump first came into office in 2017. Today there are more than three dozen, many of them joint ventures between automakers and battery companies, according to the Alliance for Automotive Innovation.
Except for Tesla, most automakers still sell electric vehicles at a loss because they have not yet recouped their investments. They also need to sell at scale to bring down production costs, and while E.V. sales in the United States are still growing, the pace has slowed.
Still, virtually all auto executives expect electric vehicles to displace gasoline cars over time and if the American carmakers falter now, they risk being overtaken by carmakers from Europe and China.
Ripping up the pollution rules could imperil those investments and harm the American industry's ability to compete globally, said analysts.
"The regulations determine that all automakers have to follow the same rules," said Stephanie Brinley, an analyst for the Auto Intelligence service at S&P Global Mobility. "You don't want one automaker sticking to making the cheapest fossil fuel cars to sell domestically, while the other automakers are trying to make these investments to compete globally. If you have a regulation on the books, then everybody has to play by the same rules."
Rolling back the rules would also pose a problem because automakers plan car models years in advance. Developers in Detroit have already designed the cars they expect to put in showrooms in 2028, under the assumption that the E.V. rules would still be in place.
"The worst thing of all for the automakers, even worse than a difficult regulation, is a back-and-forth swing every four years," Ms. Brinley said.
The automakers are also hoping to press the point with Mr. Trump that many of their new E.V. manufacturing facilities and battery plants, which are generating jobs and tax revenue, are in states like Ohio, Tennessee, Georgia and South Carolina that he won in this year's election.
But the automakers are treading with care, concerned that Mr. Trump might bear a grudge against companies that publicly opposed his first-term efforts to erase the Obama E.V. rules.
"Given their track record with Trump, I don't know how much sway the autos will have in terms of the decision the president makes," said Thomas J. Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance, a conservative research group focused on energy, who served on the first Trump administration's transition team.
Among Mr. Trump's biggest grievances with automakers includes a 2019 legal agreement that four of the world's largest automakers - Ford, Volkswagen, Honda and BMW - secretly struck with the state of California to reduce their tailpipe emissions according to stringent limits set by that state.
The move blindsided and enraged Mr. Trump, since it came as his administration was moving to weaken federal emissions standards and to revoke California's legal authority to set its own rules. He appeared to seek revenge by opening an antitrust investigation into the automakers that signed on to the California deal. Later on, two more companies - Stellantis and Volvo - joined the companies that sided with California. All those companies remain bound to that deal.
Mary Barra, the chief executive of G.M., who has shown herself to be nimble in repositioning her company to align with the priorities of a changing Oval Office, took a different tack. She met with Mr. Trump in his first weeks in office and urged him to weaken the pollution standards and joined the Trump administration's legal proceedings against the California deal.
But within weeks of Mr. Biden's election in 2020, Ms. Barra reversed course, dropping G.M.'s legal support of the Trump administration's California case, and cheering Mr. Biden's electric vehicle agenda.
In a letter at the time to environmental groups, Ms. Barra wrote: "President-elect Biden recently said, 'I believe that we can own the 21st-century car market again by moving to electric vehicles.' We at General Motors couldn't agree more."
Mr. Trump was furious.
Ms. Barra further cemented her relationship with Mr. Biden in 2022, when G.M. hired his niece, Missy Owens, as its head of environmental, social and corporate governance.
Ms. Barra has insisted that G.M.'s strategy is not dependent on politics. The company's investments in batteries were "something we started well before I even knew what I.R.A. was going to be or that it would be passed," she said in an interview last month.
Auto lobbyists familiar with the Trump transition, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk publicly, described a scenario in which the Big Three auto companies would need to bow to Mr. Trump.
"General Motors is going to have to come back in and make nice with Trump," said Christopher Grundler, a former top auto pollution regulator who worked at the E.P.A. from the Carter through the Biden administrations.
It appears that G.M. is trying to follow that advice.
After the July assassination attempt on Mr. Trump, Ms. Barra wrote on X, "I wish President Trump all the best for a full recovery."
Mr. Trump's inauguration committee has asked G.M. to provide about 250 vehicles for V.I.P.s during the inauguration, and the company intends to support the event "in a big way," according to a person familiar with the matter. It is not yet known if any of the vehicles will be electric, the person said.
Asked about Ms. Barra's relationship with Mr. Trump, G.M.'s head of corporate affairs, Faryl Ury, along with other G.M. officials, directed inquiries to Arthur Schwartz, a longtime Republican strategist and adviser to Donald Trump Jr. Mr. Schwartz is reportedly consulting to companies seeking to build relationships with the president-elect. Mr. Schwartz, who has worked with the Trump adviser Stephen K. Bannon, declined to comment on the record.
It is possible that the efforts by the carmakers could yield results, said Mike Murphy, a Republican strategist and chief executive of the EV Policy Project, an effort to end the partisan divide over electric vehicles.
"If the message is 'mend it, don't end it,' that might get through," Mr. Murphy said of the E.V. rules. "Trumpworld is a weird mix of grievance, instinct and transactional outlook. Despite what he says on the campaign trail, everything he says is written in pencil."
#188
Support for wind power and solar energy among Republicans has dropped significantly since 2020, as older Republicans in particular soured on renewable energy sources, according to a new survey from the Pew Research Center.
Still, a clear majority of Americans, 63 percent, want the country to stop adding carbon dioxide from the burning of oil, gas and coal to the atmosphere by 2050, the study found. That's the goal that scientists say all major economies must reach to avoid the most deadly effects from climate change. To that end, 78 percent want more solar energy while 72 percent want more wind power, the survey found.
But that marks a softening in public support for renewable energy, driven by Republicans and Republican-leaning independents, whose approval of clean energy started to fall sharply after President Biden took office in 2021, according to Pew.
In the new survey, 64 percent of Republicans said they favor more solar farms, down from 84 percent the year Mr. Biden was elected. Similarly, 56 percent of Republicans said they support more wind turbine farms, down from 75 percent in 2020. Over the same period, support among Democrats for wind and solar remained high and steady.
"This is a sizable and significant change," said Alec Tyson, associate director of research at Pew Research Center. "It's a new level of polarization on energy issues that we had not previously seen."
The public's appetite for electric vehicles has also fallen, with just 29 percent of Americans saying they would consider an E.V. for their next purchase, down from 38 percent in 2023.
The future of clean energy and electric vehicles is at stake in this year's fight for the White House between former President Donald J. Trump, who has dismissed global warming as a "hoax" and wants the country to continue to produce record amounts of oil and gas, and President Biden, who wants the country to pivot away from the fossil fuels that are driving climate change.
In 2022, President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act, or the I.R.A., the nation's most ambitious climate law, which invests at least $370 billion in the manufacturing of electric vehicles, batteries, solar panels and other renewable power. It also provides rebates to consumers who buy E.V.s, heat pumps and other clean energy technology. Mr. Biden has also used environmental regulations to limit the pollution from tailpipes and smokestacks.
All of that became fodder for Republicans, led by Mr. Trump and the fossil fuel industry, who have spent the past four years attacking renewables while promoting oil and gas. The American Petroleum Institute, a trade group, is running an eight figure advertising campaign that portrays fossil fuels as vital to the country's prosperity. A group of Republican attorneys general has been challenging the Biden administration's environmental regulations in a series of lawsuits.
"It's on Republican airways right now because the I.R.A. is one of Biden's key successes," said Megan Mullin, director of the Luskin Center for Innovation at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Mr. Trump regularly rails against electric vehicles and clean energy. He has falsely claimed that electric vehicles are all made in China and can run just 15 minutes before they need to be recharged. He has falsely said wind turbines drop real estate values by 75 percent, cause cancer and, when located offshore, kill whales. Solar energy, he has incorrectly said, "would mean that America's seniors have no air conditioning during the summer, no heat during the winter, and no electricity during peak hours."
The Pew study found that when it comes to energy policy, the gap between Democrats and Republicans has only widened since 2020.
In May 2020, 91 percent of Democrats said the national priority should be developing renewable energy, compared with 65 percent of Republicans.
Four years later, that gap has ballooned, due almost entirely to changing views among Republicans. Just 38 percent of Republicans now say renewable energy should be prioritized.
At the same time, the share of Republicans who believe that priority should be given to developing oil, coal and natural gas has grown from 35 percent to 61 percent, the survey found.
"Solar and wind are code for Democrat," said Mike Murphy, a Republican political consultant and founder of EVRepublicans.org, which tries to build support for electric vehicles among Republicans. "We've started to apply political identities to things that shouldn't have political identities."
There is, however, a generational split among Republicans when it comes to renewable energy, the study found. In an almost reverse image, two-thirds of Republicans ages 18 to 29 said the nation should prioritize the expansion of renewable energy while 76 percent of Republicans ages 65 and older said the priority should be more oil, coal and natural gas.
Almost all Democrats, regardless of age, prioritized developing renewable energy sources like wind and solar. The survey found that 64 percent of Democrats support a Biden administration regulation aimed at expanding sales of electric vehicles, while 83 percent of Republicans oppose it.
Mr. Murphy said he believes attitudes toward renewable energy will change once factories made possible by the Inflation Reduction Act are built, jobs are created and electric vehicles become more attractive to purchase. But, he said, de-emphasizing the environmental benefits of clean energy is a must in order to win over Republican consumers.
"The environmental stuff is triggering to them," Mr. Murphy said.
Scientists say a global transition to wind, solar and other forms of nonpolluting energy is vital to reduce the greenhouse gases produced from burning fossil fuels that are dangerously heating the planet.
The Pew survey also offers a rare window into public opinions about renewable energy in rural America, finding "less positive views of wind and solar" there than among people who live in urban or suburban areas. Only about a quarter of rural residents said they believe a local solar development would help their local economy, and just 35 percent thought it would lower the price of electricity.
About 40 percent of urban residents thought such a project would be economically beneficial, and 51 percent thought it would bring down electricity prices.
Rural residents also are more likely than urban dwellers to believe a clean energy project like a solar farm would make the local landscape "ugly."
#189
One year after world leaders made a splashy promise to shift away from fossil fuels, countries are burning more oil, natural gas and coal than ever before, researchers said this week.
Global carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels are on track to reach a record 37.4 billion metric tons in 2024, a 0.8 percent increase over 2023 levels, according to new data from the Global Carbon Project. It's a trend that puts countries farther from their goal of stopping global warming.
The increase was not uniform across the globe. Emissions will most likely decline this year in the United States and Europe, and fossil fuel use in China slowed. Yet that was offset by a surge in carbon dioxide from India and the rest of the world.
The findings were made public early on Wednesday at the United Nations climate change summit in Baku, Azerbaijan, where diplomats and world leaders have gathered to discuss how to raise trillions of dollars to cope with rising global temperatures. Those talks have already been jolted by the election of Donald J. Trump and the expectation that the United States will soon retreat from the fight against global warming.
Some experts had previously suggested that global emissions could peak sometime this decade because of the rapid spread of solar panels, wind turbines and electric vehicles. But so far, those technologies have only partly satisfied the world's steadily growing demand for energy. That means countries have kept burning more oil, coal and gas to fill the gap.
"Solar and wind is displacing fossil fuels in some countries, but then you have other countries where the economies are growing too strongly for renewables to keep up," said Glen Peters, a senior researcher at the CICERO Center for International Climate Research in Oslo and one of the authors of the report.
"When you put the whole global sum together, fossil fuels are still winning," Dr. Peters said. "An emissions peak could be around the corner, but we haven't seen it yet."
At last year's climate talks in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, representatives from nearly every nation approved a pact that called for "transitioning away from fossil fuels" and accelerating climate action this decade. But that agreement was vague on how to do so and on which countries should do what. To bring global warming to a halt, nations would need to stop adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere altogether.
A relatively small number of countries account for the majority of the world's emissions, with China responsible for 32 percent, the United States 13 percent, India 8 percent and the European Union 6 percent.
Europe's emissions are expected to decline by roughly 3.8 percent this year, the report said. That's partly because wind and solar power have rapidly displaced coal in the electricity sector. But the decline was also partly driven by weaker economic growth, as energy-intensive industries like steel and fertilizer scaled back production after Russia's invasion of Ukraine caused natural gas prices to spike.
In the United States, carbon dioxide emissions are expected to drop modestly this year, by around 0.6 percent. America's emissions from coal are now at their lowest levels in more than 120 years as utilities continue to retire their older coal-burning power plants.
At the same time, however, U.S. electricity demand has soared to record highs as a result of scorching summer heat waves and a rapid build-out of data centers. That has led to record demand for natural gas, which emits about half as much carbon dioxide as coal when burned for energy.
China, the world's largest emitter, saw a small increase in emissions this year of around 0.2 percent. That's a notable shift from the past few decades, when China was building hundreds of coal plants to fuel breakneck growth and carbon dioxide emissions were rising sharply each year. But experts say it is too soon to say whether Chinese emissions might be on the verge of peaking.
In recent years, China has built more solar arrays, wind farms and electric vehicles than any other country. At the same time, China's rate of economic growth has slowed, with sectors like construction and heavy industry cooling off after decades of rapid expansion.
"If these trends continue and renewable power keeps up the pace, it's conceivable that emissions will decline or at least stay flat after 2024," said Jan Ivar Korsbakken, a senior researcher at CICERO who studies Chinese emissions. But he also cautioned that some forecasters had expected China's emissions to decline this year, and that didn't happen.
In India, fossil fuel emissions are expected to increase by 4.6 percent, the largest single driver of the growth in carbon dioxide globally. India recently surpassed the European Union as the world's third-largest emitter, although its per person emissions are just one-third those of Europe.
In the rest of the world, emissions increased roughly 1.1 percent this year. International air travel and shipping also increased rapidly, though both are still below levels in 2019, before the coronavirus pandemic.
#190
The United States and 21 other countries pledged on Saturday at the United Nations climate summit in Dubai to triple nuclear energy capacity by 2050, saying the revival of nuclear power was critical for cutting carbon emissions to near zero in the coming decades.
Proponents of nuclear energy, which supplies 18 percent of electricity in the United States, say it is a clean, safe and reliable complement to wind and solar energy. But a significant hurdle is funding.
Last month, a developer of small nuclear reactors in Idaho said it was canceling a project that had been expected to be part of a new wave of power plants. The cost of building the reactors had risen to $9.3 billion from $5.3 billion because of increasing interest rates and inflation.
Britain, Canada, France, Ghana, South Korea, Sweden and the United Arab Emirates were among the 22 countries that signed the declaration to triple capacity from 2020 levels.
Tripling nuclear energy capacity by 2050, which would also help Europe reduce its dependence on Russian oil and gas, would require significant investment. In advanced economies, which have nearly 70 percent of global nuclear capacity, investment has stalled as construction costs have soared, projects have run over budget and faced delays. On top of cost, another hurdle to expanding nuclear capacity is that plants are slower to build than many other forms of power.
Addressing the issue of financing, John Kerry, President Biden's climate envoy, said that there were "trillions of dollars" available that could be used for investment in nuclear. "We are not making the argument to anybody that this is absolutely going to be the sweeping alternative to every other energy source - no, that's not what brings us here," he said. But, he added, the science has shown that "you can't get to net-zero 2050 without some nuclear."
Nuclear power does not emit carbon, and an International Energy Agency report last year said that nuclear was crucial to helping to reduce carbon emissions in line with the Paris Agreement goals outlined in 2015.
President Emmanuel Macron of France said nuclear energy, including small modular reactors, was an "indispensable solution" to efforts to curb climate change. France, Europe's biggest producer of nuclear power, gets about 70 percent of its own electricity from nuclear stations.
Mr. Macron and other leaders, including Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson of Sweden, called on the World Bank and international financial institutions to help finance nuclear projects. Mr. Kristersson said that governments must "assume a role in sharing the financial risks to strengthen the conditions and provide additional incentives for investments in nuclear energy."
While world leaders on Saturday called nuclear the most effective alternative to fossil fuels, some climate activists said nuclear energy was not a panacea.
David Tong, a researcher at Oil Change International, said the pledge was divorced from the reality of nuclear energy - that it was too costly and too slow. "It's a self-serving political pledge that doesn't reflect the role that nuclear is likely to play in the energy transition, which is menial," he said. "There is very small growth in nuclear - certainly nothing like tripling."
He said he rejected the stance that there was no pathway to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, a goal set in the Paris Agreement to avoid the worst effects of global warming, without nuclear. Masayoshi Iyoda, an activist from Japan with 350.org, an international climate action campaign, cited the nuclear disaster at Fukushima in 2011 and said that nuclear power was a dangerous distraction from decarbonization goals. "It is simply too costly, too risky, too undemocratic, and too time-consuming," he said in a statement.
"We already have cheaper, safer, democratic, and faster solutions to the climate crisis, and they are renewable energy and energy efficiency," Mr. Iyoda said.
All but four of the 31 reactors that have begun construction since 2017 were designed by Russia or China, with China poised to become the leading nuclear power producer by 2030, the International Energy Agency said. This year, Germany shut its last three nuclear plants.
Nuclear capacity rose in the 1980s, particularly in Europe and North America, but dropped sharply over the subsequent years after accidents at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania in 1979 and Chernobyl in 1986. New technology and tighter regulations have been put in place since then.
Americans are conflicted about nuclear power, but a growing number favor expansion compared with a few years ago, according to a Pew Research Center study published in August.
#191
The Michigan Senate gave final approval on Wednesday to a bundle of clean energy bills, transforming a state at the center of industrial America into a leader in the fight against climate change.
The legislation, which passed both chambers of the Statehouse with narrow Democratic majorities, represents a turnaround for a state that had long blocked policies to curb pollution from the factories that have underpinned its economy for generations.
It is based on a 58-page "MI Healthy Climate" plan proposed by Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat with a growing national profile who has promoted progressive measures on labor, gay rights, guns and the environment.
The centerpiece of the new climate package, which Governor Whitmer is expected to sign into law later this month, would require the state to generate all of its electricity from wind, solar and other carbon-free sources by 2040, eliminating the climate-warming pollution generated by coal and gas-fired power plants.
The legislation would also tighten energy efficiency requirements for electric utilities, allow more residents to enroll in a rooftop solar energy program and streamline permits for new wind and solar power.
"With passage of these game-changing bills, Michigan will become a national leader on clean energy," the governor said. "People want to know that they can start a family, career, or business in a state that will provide them strong economic opportunities and fight for their children's future."
Support for the legislation, which once would have been unthinkable in such an industrialized state, has grown as Michigan has experienced the economic toll of climate change, Governor Whitmer said. She pointed to increased flooding in Detroit, the spread of toxic algae in the Great Lakes and the decline of the state's cherry and other fruit crops.
In 2022, coal and natural gas each supplied roughly a third of Michigan's electricity, while nuclear power generated 22 percent, according to data compiled by the Energy Information Administration. Renewable sources of energy, chiefly wind power generated along the Lake Huron coastline, made up about 12 percent of the state's power mix.
More than half of states already have laws or regulations requiring utilities to switch to clean electricity, but only a handful require the transition to happen at the rapid pace set by the Michigan legislation. For example, under its new law, Michigan would transition to zero-emission climate-friendly electricity sources even faster than California, which for decades has been at the vanguard of state climate action. There is no federal clean power mandate.
"The 100 percent clean electricity standard is just pathbreaking for the Midwest industrial heartland," said Dallas Burtraw, an energy policy analyst at Resources for the Future, a nonpartisan research organization. "This puts Michigan at the top tier of states in pursuing the clean energy transformation, and that's just a short list of a half-dozen states."
Policy analysts say that aggressive state action is essential if the United States is to meet President Biden's target of cutting the nation's emissions in half by 2030 and eliminating them by 2050, which scientists say all major economies must do to avert the most catastrophic impacts of climate change.
While Mr. Biden last year signed a landmark climate law and has proposed regulations to clean up pollution from smokestacks and tailpipes, those policies alone are not expected to meet his targets. That would require additional action from states.
Republicans joined with major Michigan business groups to condemn the new legislation.
"This extreme, impulsive strategy thrown together by Gov. Gretchen Whitmer and legislative Democrats will set Michigan on a disastrous economic course, stifling growth in our communities," said Aric Nesbitt, the Republican leader in the State Senate. "Radical ideological approaches to energy policy typically result in having to correct course and revert back to traditional fuels and nuclear power that will make sure peoples' lights come on when they flip the switch."
Michael Johnston, a lobbyist for the Michigan Manufacturers Association, which represents Ford, General Motors, Stellantis, Dow Chemical and more than 1,000 other companies, said his members opposed the law because they feared the rapid transition would drive up energy costs and threaten the reliability of electricity supply.
"We are the manufacturing state, and energy is a primary cost input for anything we make," he said. "And if the price of energy rises above what Michigan-located companies can pay, the less likely we can build products here."
Mr. Johnston predicted that opposition from manufacturers to the new laws could help turn the state, which voted for Donald J. Trump in 2016 but for Mr. Biden in 2020, back toward the Republican Party.
 recent New York Times poll shows that Mr. Trump, a Republican who is running to retake the White House next year, is leading Mr. Biden in Michigan, a crucial 2024 battleground state.
"When the ballot box comes around, manufacturers in particular will remember these votes," Mr. Johnston said.
Barry Rabe, a professor of public policy at the University of Michigan, said it was unclear how Michigan voters would view the clean energy legislation during next year's election.
"This is such a major shift after a couple of decades of very limited progress on moving toward clean energy in this battleground state, and it sets up a really interesting electoral test on whether a major pivot to clean energy pays political dividends," Mr. Rabe said.
State Senator Sam Singh, a Democrat and lead sponsor of the legislation, said that he expected Mr. Biden's climate law, the Inflation Reduction Act, to ensure that the costs of Michigan's energy transition were borne not by Michigan businesses and residents, but by the federal government. The law provides $370 billion in federal clean energy spending, including tax incentives for electric utilities that switch to clean energy.
"There's a unique opportunity for us to pull down federal dollars through the I.R.A. that has never been available before," he said. "That became a guiding force for us, to ensure that we were able to best position ourselves. We wanted to make sure the goals we're putting forward can be achievable."
DTE Energy and Consumers Energy, the state's two largest electric utilities, have remained publicly neutral.
That's in part because Democrats changed the original legislation, written by Mr. Singh, that would have required the companies to generate 100 percent of their electricity from clean sources by 2035 rather than 2040.
In other concessions to electric utilities, Democrats also amended the final legislation to allow utilities to continue to burn natural gas, as long as 90 percent of the planet-warming carbon dioxide pollution produced by the gas was captured and stored, rather than released into the atmosphere. That nascent technology is not currently in wide use.
Environmentalists said that while they disliked those changes, they still saw the legislation as a victory.
"While there are things that I certainly would have added or changed, this bill package is a bold plan that shows Michigan is serious about climate change and puts it in a strong leadership position nationally," said Lisa Wozniak, executive director of the Michigan League of Conservation Voters.
#192
Elon Musk has described himself as "pro-environment" and "super pro climate." But he also threw himself wholeheartedly into electing as president someone who has dismissed global warming as a hoax.
Now, as President-elect Donald J. Trump prepares to enter the White House, one big question is how much sway - if any - Mr. Musk's views on climate change and clean energy might have in the new administration.
During the campaign, Mr. Trump noticeably softened his rhetoric on electric vehicles as he grew more friendly with Mr. Musk, the billionaire chief executive of Tesla. After months of bashing plug-in cars and promising to halt their sales, Mr. Trump backtracked slightly this summer.
"I'm constantly talking about electric vehicles, but I don't mean I'm against them. I'm totally for them," he told a crowd in Michigan. "I've driven them and they are incredible, but they're not for everybody."
At the time, Mr. Musk claimed credit for Mr. Trump's apparent shift, telling Tesla shareholders at a June meeting, "I can be persuasive." Referring to Mr. Trump, he said, "A lot of his friends now have Teslas, and they all love it. And he's a huge fan of the Cybertruck. So I think those may be contributing factors."
Now Mr. Musk, who spent election night at Mr. Trump's Mar-a-Lago residence and posed for a group photograph with the president-elect's family, is expected to have a direct line to the White House in the coming months. Mr. Musk's companies, including Tesla and SpaceX, already make billions from government contracts and federal policies, and he is expected to seek additional advantages for his businesses.
But whether his persuasion might extend to other realms, such as climate issues, remains to be seen.
"It's a real question," said Paul Bledsoe, a lecturer at American University Center for Environmental Policy. "Does Musk only advocate for the interests of Tesla and SpaceX? Is he just a self-interested lobbyist? Or does he try to influence Trump to recognize that as an economic matter, clean energy is a huge opportunity for the United States to outcompete China?"
Mr. Musk and Mr. Trump's transition team did not respond to requests for comment.
Mr. Trump's views on global warming and energy policy are no mystery. He has doubted whether the Earth is getting hotter. (Scientists are unequivocal that it is.) He has falsely described climate change as "where the ocean is going to rise one-eighth of an inch over the next 400 years." (Sea levels have already risen an average of roughly eight inches over the past century and are expected to rise several feet or more by 2100 as glaciers and ice sheets continue to melt.)
The president-elect has promised to withdraw, yet again, from the 2015 Paris climate agreement, under which nearly 200 nations pledged to curb the greenhouse gas emissions that are heating the planet. He has attacked solar panels and wind turbines. And he told a crowd of supporters on Wednesday that the United States would amp up oil production even beyond current record levels. "We have more liquid gold than any country in the world," Mr. Trump said.
Mr. Musk, by contrast, has consistently said he thinks climate change is a problem - although he has sometimes wavered on how urgent that problem is. He has long been a major proponent of shifting to low-emissions technology like solar power, batteries and electric vehicles.
In a biography published last year by Walter Isaacson, Mr. Musk was described as becoming interested in solar power and electric vehicles as a college student because he was worried about the dangers of global warming and the prospect of the world running out of fossil fuels.
Tesla's success in producing electric cars with mass appeal helped supercharge a global industry. Mr. Musk's company also sells rooftop solar panels as well as batteries that can provide backup power to homes or help balance wind and solar power on the grid. This year, battery storage accounts for roughly 10 percent of Tesla's revenue.
"I think we should just generally lean in the direction of sustainability," Mr. Musk told Mr. Trump during a two-hour, live-streamed chat the two men held on X in August. "And I actually think solar is going to be a majority of Earth's energy generation in the future."
Mr. Musk has also supported nuclear power, which does not produce any greenhouse gases and which Mr. Trump has sometimes endorsed. "Nuclear electricity generation is underrated," Mr. Musk added during their chat. "People have this fear of nuclear electricity generation, but it's actually one of the safest forms of generation."
Yet Mr. Musk also suggested that there was no hurry to stop global warming. "We still have quite a bit of time, we don't need to rush," he said in August. He later added, "If, I don't know, 50 to 100 years from now, we're mostly sustainable, I think that'll probably be OK."
That puts him at odds with many world leaders and environmentalists, who have urged nations to slash their emissions much faster, down to around zero by midcentury, to keep global warming at relatively low levels. Scientists agree that the longer it takes humanity to stop pumping greenhouse gases into the air, the greater the risks of deadly heat waves, wildfires, drought, storms and species extinction.
In recent years, Mr. Musk has urged caution about drastic societal changes to address climate change. "I'm super pro climate, but we definitely don't need to put farmers out of work to solve climate change," he wrote on X last year, commenting on farmers in Belgium who were protesting limits on nitrogen pollution.
He also said in his August chat with Mr. Trump, "If we were to stop using oil and gas right now, we would all be starving and the economy would collapse. So it's, you know, I don't think it's right to vilify the oil and gas industry."
In the past, however, Mr. Musk has openly disagreed with Mr. Trump on climate issues.
In 2017, when Mr. Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, Mr. Musk stepped down from two presidential advisory councils in protest. "Climate change is real," he wrote. "Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world."
At the time, several officials in the Trump administration - including Rex Tillerson, then secretary of state - were also urging the president to stay in the Paris accord. But in the end, Mr. Trump sided with those in his cabinet who dismissed climate change altogether and wanted to exit the pact.
Some observers point out that Mr. Musk isn't the only influential donor on the issue of energy in the president-elect's orbit. During the campaign, Mr. Trump raised more than $75 million from oil and gas interests, including the billionaire Harold Hamm of Continental Resources.
Mr. Hamm has had Mr. Trump's ear since 2016 and pushed him then to appoint Scott Pruitt to run the Environmental Protection Agency, where Mr. Pruitt denied the science of global warming and unraveled various climate regulations. (Mr. Hamm did not respond to a request for comment.)
"One can only hope that Donald Trump will put conspiracy theories to the side and take the decisive action to address the climate crisis that the American people deserve," said Dan Lashof, U.S. director of the World Resources Institute, an environmental group. "But I won't hold my breath."
#193
In the 2020 presidential election, climate activists demanded that Democratic candidates explain, in detail, how they planned to tackle the planet's greatest environmental threat.
But in the weeks since Vice President Kamala Harris ascended the 2024 Democratic ticket, she has mentioned climate change only in passing, and offered no specifics on how she would curb dangerous levels of warming. Climate leaders say they are fine with that.
"I am not concerned," said Jay Inslee, the Democratic governor of Washington, who made climate change the centerpiece of his own 2019 bid for the presidency. Mr. Inslee said he believes it is more important for Ms. Harris to draw a distinction between her and her Republican rival, former President Donald J. Trump, than to drill down on policy nitty-gritty.
"I am totally confident that when she is in a position to effect positive change, she will," Gov. Inslee said.
As Ms. Harris prepares to address the nation on Thursday at the Democratic National Convention, she faces the challenge of energizing party loyalists while also reaching out to disaffected Republicans and moderate voters. So far Ms. Harris and her running mate Tim Walz, the governor of Minnesota, have embraced a pragmatic agenda, calling for things like a minimum-wage increase and child-care funding.
While President Biden has made climate change a signature issue, signing into law the largest clean energy investments in American history, Ms. Harris has yet to detail for voters her climate or clean-energy positions. Some analysts chalked that up to strategy and said new promises to slash greenhouse gas emissions or rein in fossil fuels could alienate voters particularly in the energy-rich swing state of Pennsylvania.
"This doesn't look accidental, it looks like a deliberate choice," said Kevin Book, managing director of ClearView Energy Partners, a Washington-based research firm, referring to the sparse mentions of climate change in the speeches of Ms. Harris and Mr. Walz.
"I think they are worried if she takes a strong position on climate, even it fits the same position that Biden took, it will make her look too progressive," Mr. Book said, adding, "It's a divisive issue and they need both sides as much as possible to win Pennsylvania."
Others said Ms. Harris already has voters who care about climate change locked up and doesn't need to court them. Climate groups this week announced a $55 million advertising campaign to support the Harris ticket.
Nathaniel Stinnett, founder of the Environmental Voter Project, a nonpartisan nonprofit that encourages environmentalists to vote, said his group's new poll found swing-state voters between the ages of 18 and 34, many of whom cite climate as a top voting priority, are particularly energized around Ms. Harris's campaign. 
"Climate voters and young voters more generally were bored and even a little angry that they had to choose between Joe Biden and Donald Trump," Mr. Stinnett said. "Kamala Harris has reset the conversation," he said.
Gina McCarthy, President Biden's former climate change adviser and a former administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, said activists are not demanding more details on climate from Ms. Harris and Mr. Walz because they each have well-known accomplishments. As vice president, Ms. Harris cast the tiebreaking vote for the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, the largest climate investment in United States history. Mr. Walz signed a law requiring Minnesota to get all of its electricity from wind, solar and other carbon-free sources by 2040.
"Nobody's worried about how many times she talks about climate change," Ms. McCarthy said, calling Ms. Harris and Mr. Walz "climate champions."
As senator from California, Ms. Harris cosponsored the Green New Deal, a nonbinding resolution that called for a transition away from fossil fuels to clean energy this decade. The Harris campaign hasn't said whether she still supports the Green New Deal, and has emphasized that her climate focus is on implementing the Inflation Reduction Act.
During her 2019 presidential run, Ms. Harris positioned herself to the left of Mr. Biden, calling for a fracking ban and a tax on carbon pollution, as well as changes to federal dietary guidelines to encourage less meat consumption. She did not advocate those positions once she became Mr. Biden's running mate and then vice president.
A spokesman said Ms. Harris no longer supports a fracking ban.
Mr. Trump has mocked climate science and has promised to repeal regulations designed to cut greenhouse gases, and he has attacked Ms. Harris on energy based on her 2019 positions. This week he told attendees at a rally in York, Pa., that "there will be no fracking" in the state "or anywhere else" if she wins the White House. Pennsylvania is the second-biggest producer of natural gas- after Texas.
Harris campaign officials have said that the vice president and Gov. Walz have focused in recent weeks on introducing themselves to the American public and haven't avoided climate change. In speeches in Arizona and Nevada, Ms. Harris remarked that citizens there had firsthand experience with climate-driven extreme heat and drought.
"You know the climate crisis is real," Ms. Harris said in Las Vegas this month, adding, "but Donald Trump, well, he claims it's a hoax."
#194
In February, the United States did something that it had not done in many years - the country sent more electricity to Canada than it received from its northern neighbor. Then, in March, U.S. electricity exports to Canada climbed even more, reaching their highest level since at least 2010.
The increasing flow of power north is part of a worrying trend for North America: Demand for energy is growing robustly everywhere, but the supply of power - in Canada's case from giant hydroelectric dams - and the ability to get the energy to where it's needed are increasingly under strain.
Many energy experts say Canadian hydroelectric plants, which have had to reduce electricity production because of a recent drop in rain and snow, will eventually bounce back. But some industry executives are worried that climate change, which has already been linked to the explosive wildfires in Canada last year, could make it harder to predict when rain and snowfall will return to normal.
"We've all got to be humble in the face of more extreme weather," said Chris O'Riley, president and chief executive of the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority, which operates hydroelectric dams in western Canada. "We manage from year to year the ups and downs of water, and when we have the downs like we're having, the lower levels, it's common for us to import power, and we expect to continue that this year."
The United States and Canada have long relied on each other because power use tends to peak north of the border during the winter when Canadians use electric heaters, and American electricity use peaks in the summer during air-conditioning season.
The abundance of Canada's hydroelectric power has been a cornerstone of the trade, providing relatively low-cost renewable energy to California, Oregon, Washington State, New York State and New England.
But the supply-and-demand equation for energy is changing. Demand for electricity in many states has been climbing sharply in summer and winter. Some experts predict that winter electricity demand in the United States could eclipse summer demand by 2050.
At the same time, utilities are increasingly reliant on intermittent resources like solar and wind power. Large hydroelectric plants, once considered a stable source of electricity, have struggled with low reservoirs in California, around Hoover Dam and recently in Canada.
"We are facing real changes in the weather, and we're finding out in real time how that's going to affect hydroelectric operations, pretty much across North America," said Robert McCullough of McCullough Research, a firm based in Portland, Ore., who has been a consultant for corporate customers of Canadian utilities since the 1980s.
In addition, electricity use is expected to climb as people and businesses turn to electric heat pumps, cars and industrial equipment to replace devices that burn oil, natural gas and coal. Demand is also growing because of data centers.
One solution is to build more power lines, something the Biden administration and some states are working on. But energy experts say the United States also ought to add more such connections to Canada. That would allow, for example, solar farms in California to supply Canada when its dams don't have enough water and for Canadian utilities to send more power south when they have an abundance.
"Most models suggest that a more interconnected grid is a better grid," said Shelley Welton, a presidential distinguished professor at the University of Pennsylvania who helped write a recent report on electric grid reliability and governance. "I do think there is power in being interconnected across North America. We need scenario planning. We need long-term planning."
The Robert-Bourassa hydroelectric dam and its spillway, along La Grande River.
Set among the pine and spruce trees of northern Quebec, the Robert-Bourassa hydroelectric dam represents the promises and challenges inherent in harnessing renewable energy.
The plant's operator, Hydro-Québec, a utility owned by the Canadian province, built the power plant on a bank of La Grande River as part of a network of stations that can produce more than twice as much electricity as the largest U.S. power plant - the Grand Coulee Dam on the Columbia River in Washington State.
The La Grande complex has helped Hydro-Québec become a leading supplier to New York State and New England. But less snow than normal has forced Hydro-Québec and other Canadian utilities to import more power from the United States in recent months.
"It looks like conditions are abnormally dry," said Gilbert Bennett, president of Water Power Canada, a nonprofit that represents the hydropower industry. "The year-to-year variations are becoming large."
Hydro-Québec executives say they expect the dry spell to end soon, citing similar stretches in 2004 and 2014. Models predict an increase in precipitation of 6 to 8 percent for eastern Canada over the next 25 years, the company said.
Serge Abergel, chief operating officer for Hydro-Québec Energy Services, said Canada's greater reliance on the United States had been a temporary way for hydro plants to save their water. He added that as both countries modernized and expanded their grids with more renewable and efficient resources, they would be able to complement each other.
"The transition is also creating opportunities," Mr. Abergel said during a recent tour of the Robert-Bourassa dam. "You optimize these resources."
Hydro-Québec built the Robert-Bourassa plant as part of a network of stations that can produce more than twice as much electricity as the largest U.S. power plant.
The complex has allowed Canada to become a leading power supplier to New York State and New England.
Less snow than normal has forced Hydro-Québec and other Canadian utilities to import more power from the United States in recent months.
In general, the United States would prefer to import more power from Canada because it's much cheaper. Hydro-Québec's residential customers pay about $50 for 1,000 kilowatt-hours of energy, Mr. Abergel said, compared with $236 in New York State and $276 on average in New England.
The company's costs are low because its hydro plants were built and paid off long ago. But bringing that affordable power south is expensive - Canadian hydro energy costs homeowners in Massachusetts twice as much as it does residents of Quebec, according to an analysis by McCullough Research.
Hydro-Québec has been building more power lines. It is taking part in one project, the Champlain Hudson Power Express, which is expected to be completed by mid-2026. The $6 billion, roughly 339-mile-long transmission line will connect a substation in La Prairie, near Montreal, to a converter station in Astoria, Queens. The line will be able to deliver enough energy to serve more than a million homes in New York City.
"If you want to transition quickly, you need more transmission," Mr. Abergel said. But, "we're not incentivizing someone to come up with solutions," he added. "We're doing things piecemeal."
Mr. Abergel said Hydro-Québec would meet all of its obligations to New York and other states despite the dry conditions because it can preserve water by reducing how much electricity its hydro power produces and importing more energy from the United States. This way, the company will still have enough water to export power when energy demand is higher in New York and New England.
But some energy experts are not so sanguine. Mr. McCullough, the consultant, said he worried that global warming could so strain reservoirs that it would no longer be feasible for Canadian utilities to keep enough water in reserve to make it through a very long dry spell.
"Each time we have one of these episodes," Mr. McCullough said, "it's a white-knuckle moment."
How dependent the utilities in the United States and Canada are on each other is on stark display in Oregon. Portland General Electric, a utility serving about two million residents in the state, tracks water flows and snowpack in British Columbia from an operations center near Portland.
When drought and wildfires threaten areas around the Columbia River, hydroelectric plants and transmission lines that connect Canada, Washington, Oregon and California become vulnerable.
"What we're really concerned about right now is the snowpack is low in Canada," said Darrington Outama, senior director of power operations at Portland General Electric. "What we focus on as a region is how are they doing up there."
In addition to importing electricity from British Columbia, PGE gets power from two small hydroelectric plants in the Bull Run watershed east of Portland.
Oregon's Bull Run rainforest does not get water from the Columbia River. But a severe wildfire like one last summer could force officials to shut down those dams and stop drawing water from Bull Run. If that happened, Portland would have to rely on groundwater, which could in turn affect the Columbia River and hydroelectric dams tied to it.
"We have to think about all of the scenarios," Kristin Anderson, water resources program manager for the Portland Water Bureau, said during a tour of the Bull Run. "We've been seeing more rapid shifts of weather moments. We're planning throughout the season to be ready for anything."
Anna Buckley, left, the watershed's protection manager, and Sarah Santner, the resource protection and planning director, during a visit to a part of the watershed that was damaged by the fire.
Hydroelectric plants often are the lowest priority for water use. As a result, wildfires, low snowpack and drought can lead to significant reductions in their production. If demand for electricity is high at the same time, regional energy grids could buckle.
"There were these historic patterns of power from north to south," Mr. O'Riley of British Columbia Hydro said. "All of those patterns have been upended. Power's flowing in all different directions."
In a twist, California, which suffered a severe drought in recent years, has lately been awash. Blizzards, atmospheric rivers and other storms have covered the state's mountains in snow and topped off reservoirs, enabling its dams to crank out lots of electricity.
The state also recently installed many large batteries that allow utilities to use the abundant solar power for hours after the sun has set.
California's energy plenitude should be a boon to British Columbia, Oregon and Washington State, but energy executives said there weren't enough transmission lines to carry all of that surplus electricity north where it is needed.
#195
María Mercedes-Grubb was about to sprinkle coarse salt on a perfectly grilled steak one night this summer at a new restaurant in San Juan when the power went out, forcing it to close hours early.
The restaurant, Mamplé, where she is executive chef, endured at least five blackouts in the first month after opening, Ms. Mercedes-Grubb said, each one a financial drain on the business and its employees.
"In a restaurant, it takes weeks to make what you lose in a day's worth of work," she said. "It's really sad having your whole staff sitting out front, without making money."
Power outages have increased in frequency and duration in Puerto Rico over the past year, government data shows, disrupting all facets of life. Seven years after Hurricane Maria ravaged the island, the power grid remains fragile, inefficient and expensive - Puerto Ricans pay some of the nation's highest electrical bills - despite the privatization of the power transmission and distribution system in 2021.
Puerto Ricans living in swing states became a focus of attention in the presidential election this week after a comedian at a rally for former President Donald J. Trump called Puerto Rico a "floating island of garbage." Vice President Kamala Harris and her allies amplified and denounced the offensive remark, while Mr. Trump quickly sought to distance himself from it.
But the more than 3.2 million Puerto Ricans living in Puerto Rico cannot vote for president beyond a symbolic ballot. Their most consequential election on Tuesday is for governor, and a leading issue in that four-way race has been the electricity problem, which got worse after Hurricane Ernesto brushed the island in August.
The blackouts have recently prompted an unusual burst of political engagement, in part because they are harming small businesses that make up an important piece of the economy. Some businesses have offered deals to customers who showed proof that they had registered to vote. In social media posts about having to close because of a power outage, the owners have encouraged people to vote. New voter registrations in recent months were robust.
By the time the candidates for governor debated on television this month, all four said that they supported canceling the island's 15-year contract with Luma Energy, the private Canadian-American consortium that took over the electrical grid. Not all of them had initially held that position.
Their stance is more political than practical: Ending the contract early could cost hundreds of millions of dollars and would require the approval of the fiscal board, appointed by Congress, that has overseen Puerto Rico's finances since 2016.
Though critics point to the power outages as evidence of poor performance, Luma says it is focused on "overcoming historic challenges" that have plagued the electrical system.
"To be clear, we've made substantial progress while meeting all the requirements of Luma's contract, and we've remained on budget, without raising our rates," Luma said in a statement. "Our commitment to Puerto Rico is clear."
The power outages - along with a housing crisis, the high cost of living, the slow hurricane recovery and a prolonged financial crisis - have hastened an extraordinary political shift.
The shift has given rise to third parties and to a coalition candidate for governor, Juan Dalmau, who is running a close second in public opinion polls. Were Mr. Dalmau, a former state senator, to pull off an upset, he would become the first governor not affiliated with either of the two parties that have dominated politics on the island for more than half a century.
Puerto Rican politics do not neatly align with those on the mainland. The candidate leading in the polls, Representative Jenniffer González-Colón, Puerto Rico's nonvoting member of Congress, is a Trump-aligned Republican who leads the New Progressive Party, which supports Puerto Rican statehood.
Mr. Dalmau is not a Democrat or a Republican; the coalition he represents, known as Alianza, includes the longstanding pro-independence party and one of the new, smaller parties that has emerged. The new parties have been less concerned with the defining question of Puerto Rico's political status and more focused on social and economic policy, including energy policy.
There is no easy fix for the electrical system and its aging infrastructure after decades of lack of investment and past mismanagement. Reconstruction is slow and dependent on federal funds. But even if a new governor cannot easily cancel Luma's contract, he or she could enforce or enhance oversight mechanisms.
Mr. Dalmau has proposed returning control of power plants and the electrical grid to the public sector under an independent energy agency and transitioning to renewable power sources. Ms. González-Colón has proposed naming an energy czar to oversee the private power companies and hold them accountable while fostering more competition in the energy sector.
But some small-business owners are wondering how long they can wait. Xavier Ramos Oliver and his business partner, Ariana Camayd Cabán, were preparing to celebrate the second anniversary of their wine shop, Cru, in September when more blackouts forced them to buy a generator for $14,000, close to a third of their monthly revenue.
They had lost sales during power-related closures, as well as a refrigerator when a power surge fried its compressor. Customers who wanted to hold events at their shop would balk when they learned Cru did not have a generator.
"We didn't have the money in the bank, so we bought it with a credit card," Ms. Camayd Cabán said.
Ms. Mercedes-Grubb had to close her first restaurant in San Juan after Hurricane Maria. In the new, 35-seat restaurant on the ground floor of a residential building, there is not enough space for an adequate generator.
"That cannot be the solution," she said. "The real solution here has to be for them to fix the electrical grid."
She has been among the small-business owners encouraging customers on social media not only to vote, but to vote "neither red nor blue," referring to Puerto Rico's two traditional political parties.
"We need to vote differently," said Ms. Mercedes-Grubb, who supports Mr. Dalmau. "It has always been the same politicians."
#196
For pronghorn, those antelope-like creatures of the American West, this grassland north of Flagstaff is prime habitat. It gives the animals the food and conditions they need to survive fall and winter.
But for a nation racing to adopt renewable energy, the land is prime for something else: solar panels. The sun shines strong, the terrain is flat and high-voltage transmission lines are already in place from a decommissioned coal plant. Energy collected here could speed to major metropolitan regions across the West, part of a colossal wave of clean power needed to stave off the worst effects of global warming.
Animals need humans to solve climate change. But they also need places to live. Loss of habitat is the top driver of a staggering global decline in biodiversity, the variety of life on earth. The boom in solar, set to be the fastest-growing energy source in the United States, is predicted to fence off millions of acres across the nation, blanketing them in rows of glassy squares.
The good news for wildlife is that there are ways for solar developers to make installations less harmful and even beneficial for many species, like fences that let some animals pass, wildlife corridors, native plants that nurture pollinators, and more.
But at this pivotal moment, as solar farms sprout across the country, those measures often go unused. Among the reasons: a patchwork of local and state regulations governing large-scale solar, not enough research on how animals interact with it, and an absence of federal guidelines on siting or design.
"We're faced with two truths: We have a climate change crisis, but we also have a biodiversity crisis," said Meaghan Gade, a program manager at the Association of Fish & Wildlife Agencies. "We have to be mindful that there's wildlife that are dependent on these habitats, and we have to be smart and thoughtful about how we're doing this deployment so that we can hold both of those crises at the same time."
Eighty percent of states rely on voluntary approaches to minimize impacts to species and habitat, according to the association. As developers race ahead, the decisions they make today will reverberate for decades.
On the grassland north of Flagstaff, a ranching family, solar developers and state wildlife biologists have come together to try out solutions on the fly. One sunny day last fall, a helicopter descended over a herd of pronghorn streaking across shrubby grasslands near the site of a planned solar farm.

The collars will help researchers understand how pronghorn and other animals interact with energy infrastructure.
Pronghorn are exceptional for their combination of speed and endurance. If there was a global mammal marathon, a pronghorn would probably win.
Even though they look like antelopes, they're more closely related to giraffes. While Arizona's pronghorn population is stable, it's a small fraction of the species' historic numbers.
A net shot from the helicopter, a buck fell and a wrangler jumped out. He tied the buck's feet and a biologist blindfolded the heaving animal, hoping to calm him. Monitoring his temperature for signs of dangerous distress, they worked quickly to attach a tag to his ear and a GPS collar around his neck.
The collar will track how he responds to the solar farm, which will be broken up into sections. Fifteen corridors ranging from a quarter-mile to more than a half-mile will offer habitat and passage for pronghorn, mule deer and elk.
A moment later the pronghorn galloped away, an unknowing participant in an experiment in coexistence.
"If you start with a site that has really no conservation value - it's cleared, it's degraded, whatever - then everything you do at that point is a win," said Liz Kalies, an ecologist who studies clean energy for the Nature Conservancy and works in North Carolina, where forests have been felled to make way for solar.
Pollinators like bees, for example, can benefit from solar facilities that replace crops treated with pesticides, especially when the new installations include native species (nearby crops can benefit, too). In Kentucky, a solar farm is going up at the site of a former coal mine.
But for developers, it's not so easy. Getting permits and financing for work on former industrial sites can be tricky because of risks like leftover toxic waste. Rural communities sometimes oppose the conversion of agricultural areas to solar, arguing that arable land should be protected for food security and to maintain the economic health of farming towns.
And critically, developers need to be able to move the electricity, which makes the availability of transmission infrastructure paramount to any site.
"While it would be nice to think that there's all of these low-conflict areas that developers could just go build on and everybody would leave them alone, in reality that's not how things work," said Tom Vinson, vice president of policy and regulatory affairs at the American Clean Power Association, which represents utility-scale solar developers. "There's always competing interests out there."
Potential solar sites are so ecologically varied that federal guidelines on wildlife and habitat wouldn't be appropriate, he said. And solar developers already take precautions for animals and plants that are protected under the Endangered Species Act, the intensive care unit for wildlife.
Oil and natural gas reduce habitat and can cause pollution, including catastrophic spills. They also drive climate change, which is expected to replace habitat loss as the leading threat to the world's biodiversity in future decades.
Wind turbines come with bird and bat collisions, though many of those deaths can be minimized, and the infrastructure doesn't take up much space. Anecdotes abound of elk and pronghorn strolling around turbines or napping in their shade.
Solar farms need a lot more land per unit of energy. While they're projected to take up a tiny fraction of the area dedicated to agriculture, they come on top of that, and on top of land occupied by cities, towns, roads and all kinds of industries.
Up to a third of potential solar development in the United States could overlap with areas that have high value for wildlife movement, according to one study, as animals move to adapt to climate change. (Rooftop and other small-scale solar can go a long way to taking pressure off big installations, but U.S. energy demand would still require a surge in large-scale projects.)
One way to reduce solar's damage is wildlife-friendly fencing.
ational electricity codes require fencing to protect people from electrical hazards and infrastructure from damage. Simply replacing the conventional chain-link version with fencing that has wider gaps will let creatures like foxes scamper through. Raising the bottom of a fence off the ground, to offer a few inches of passage, accomplishes the same thing.
In Florida, a combination of four- and six-foot fencing allows panthers and deer to jump into many of Florida Power and Light's solar facilities, said Jack Eble, a company spokesman. Wooden supports that shore up fences let medium-sized animals crawl over, and larger openings at the bottom give access to small animals.
"We have not experienced any issues with wildlife damaging solar panels or other solar-related infrastructure to date," Mr. Eble said.
Chain-link fences with wider gaps are used for small and midsized wildlife, like this bobcat in Tennessee.
The Nature Conservancy
But so far, wildlife friendly fencing is not commonly used, according to Josh Ennen, a senior scientist at the Renewable Energy Wildlife Institute, a nonprofit collaboration that seeks to find solutions to wildlife conflicts and is mostly funded by industry.
Developers are often unfamiliar with the options for wildlife-friendly fencing, and it may not be easily available. Furthermore, many worry it will backfire if federally protected animals use the permeable fencing to wander onto the site. Suddenly, developers would have to worry about fines for driving over, say, a baby desert tortoise.
Regulations can get in the way, too. Around the country, solar facilities are subject to a disparate patchwork of local and state rules, some of which require specific kinds of fencing.
These challenges need to be solved quickly, biologists and wildlife advocates say.
"It's not something we can easily retrofit," Dr. Kalies said. "Developers don't want to tear down a fence once it's up."

A Trade-Off for the Future
At Babbitt Ranches, the solar farm's fencing will be raised off the ground for smaller animals like rabbits. Pronghorn, mule deer and elk will be kept out because of the developer's concerns that they could damage equipment or hurt themselves. For those animals, they're planning the corridors.
Long known for Hereford cattle and quarter horses, Babbitt Ranches stretches over 700,000 acres of private and leased public land. Transmission lines have drawn a crowd of clean energy developers, and the first wind turbines have already gone up.
Clenera, a solar developer, approached the ranch in 2018. For Babbitt's president, Bill Cordasco, the idea of a large solar project was appealing both financially and morally. It would bring in revenue for the family business while helping reduce climate risks for future generations. But he knew the pronghorn relied on that land. Mr. Cordasco wanted to find a solution that would meet everyone's needs, including the pronghorn.
"If you guys aren't interested in working through this pronghorn deal, it ain't going to happen," he recalled telling Clenera during their first in-person meeting.
Bill Cordasco, president of Babbitt Ranches.

A map showed how pronghorn and deer movements intersect with planned renewable energy projects.
Clenera was interested.
State wildlife officials already had data from earlier GPS collaring, so they knew how pronghorn and mule deer moved through the area. A renewable energy ordinance passed by Coconino County gave additional teeth to the importance of maintaining wildlife linkages in solar facilities.
A back-and-forth over the site design led to adding migration corridors and closing off some dead-end areas where animals could have gotten trapped or disoriented. Developers and wildlife officials discussed the pros and cons of quarter-mile versus half-mile corridors. (Would the smaller ones be wide enough for the animals to use? Would the larger be worth a significant increase in the overall footprint?) In the end, everyone agreed on the range of different corridors, creating a kind of natural experiment.
The miles of additional high-voltage cable and the extra fencing required to break big sections of solar panels into smaller ones make the project more expensive, Clenera officials said, though they declined to say how much. Mr. Cordasco also asked them to help fund long-term studies on the impact of the solar farm on wildlife migration.
"It's a lot of money," said Tom Fitzgerald, vice president of development at Clenera. "That's also the cost of getting all of the stakeholders to get behind you and to support your project, and to pay to be a contributing member of any community."
Jeff Gagnon, a biologist with the Arizona Game and Fish Department who oversaw the collaring effort, was thrilled to have his agency's advice taken seriously. He focuses on habitat connectivity, and while dozens of solar projects have come to his agency for review, he said, developers often disregard or minimize their recommendations.
"They can take it or leave it," he said.
This time, he pointed out, Mr. Cordasco made sure things went differently.
Mr. Cordasco knows the pronghorn he loves could be negatively affected, but he believes the damage will be minimized and the trade-off will be worth it for generations of people and wildlife to come.
"When you make these bigger decisions," Mr. Cordasco said, "you have to have a very long-term view."
#197
If the area around Jackson, Wyo., boasts two things, they're natural resources and very rich locals. Nathan Wendt is trying to use the Biden administration's clean energy incentives to bring the two together.
Mr. Wendt, the president of the Jackson Hole Center for Global Affairs, has spent years working on issues related to climate change and local economic development. And as President Biden pushed one climate-related policy after another through Congress - first the infrastructure law, and then the Inflation Reduction Act - and a dizzying array of tax credits, loans and grants became available, he sensed an opportunity.
"For Jackson Hole investors looking for the next big thing, there's no need to look beyond state lines," Mr. Wendt wrote this spring in an opinion essay in The Jackson Hole News & Guide, where he extolled the "flush tax credits" the law provided. "This decade's great money-making opportunity," he wrote, "will be in investing in net zero projects in energy communities, including in Wyoming."
Wyoming is both the nation's largest coal producer and a Republican stronghold where the clean energy transition has at times faced stark opposition. Its entire congressional delegation voted against the Inflation Reduction Act. But the state is unusually well suited to benefit from some of the green incentives the government is offering.
Wyoming's geology and legal landscape make it a top candidate for fledgling carbon capture technologies, which the law promotes through sweetened and extended tax credits. Its existing pipeline infrastructure and energy industry work force could help with hydrogen development. And, perhaps most important, the state has plenty of people whom the Inflation Reduction Act is courting - well-heeled investors who are looking for a way to turn a profit off the green energy transition.
The Biden administration's climate law works by attracting private capital to clean energy. While the plan includes targeted grants, many of its potentially most significant provisions aim to transition the nation's energy supply - and its energy work force - by luring people with capital to invest. Tax breaks and other incentives mean it's more attractive to make financial bets on risky, but possibly transformational, green technologies.
That has Mr. Wendt and other climate researchers across the state looking at Jackson, a town full of potential investors who could pour money into new projects. The elite enclave nestled next to Grand Teton National Park boasts the highest-income county in the United States by some measures. And, Mr. Wendt reasons, many of its millionaires and billionaires work in financial markets but decamped from big coastal cities because they loved the natural beauty that Wyoming has to offer.

They might, he figures, have both the money and the motivation to make local climate investment a reality.
"Teton County has been historically disconnected from the wider Wyoming economic story," Mr. Wendt said on a late August morning in Jackson's town square, a few yards away from an arch made of elk antlers and a few hundred yards away from a number of wealth management offices. "We're trying to bridge that gap."
It's not just Mr. Wendt who has sensed a profit opportunity. Investors and companies across the country have taken notice. Just since August, about 150 corporations have talked about the Inflation Reduction Act during investor presentations, based on Bloomberg transcripts.
In fact, interest has exceeded expectations. The Congressional Budget Office had at one point forecast that energy and climate outlays tied to the law would total about $391 billion from 2022 to 2031, with more than 60 percent of that coming from claims for various tax credits.
But Goldman Sachs analysts have estimated that the total could be three times that amount, as people and businesses make much heavier use of the incentives than the government expected. That could mean that some $3 trillion pours into green energy investment over the coming decade - $1.2 trillion from the government in the form of tax credits and other incentives, matched by even more in capital from private companies. While their estimates are on the high side, other research groups and the government itself have revised their forecasts upward.
Wyoming, for its part, could be well placed to take advantage of some of the law's more cutting-edge provisions. Some estimates have suggested that the state could see the largest per capita investment related to the legislation of any state in the nation.
The opportunities are linked to both local policies and local resources, said Scott Quillinan, the senior director of research for the School of Energy Resources at the University of Wyoming.
For instance, the law incentivizes hydrogen development with a new tax credit, making it a much cheaper potential fuel. Wyoming already has pipeline and rail networks that could help transport hydrogen mixtures, Mr. Quillinan said.
The law also expanded a tax credit for what is known as direct carbon sequestration, the process of removing carbon from the air and storing it underground or turning it into new products. Wyoming is home to spongelike rocks filled with pockets of saltwater, which are ideal for storing captured carbon. It is also easier to get the necessary permits to set up such projects in Wyoming than in many other states.
And while it used to be difficult to make cost-intensive direct capture projects pencil out, the law changed that, increasing the credit for directly captured carbon stored in saline rock formations to $180 per ton from $50.
"The incentives finally make these investments profitable," said Michele Della Vigna, a researcher at Goldman.
Environmentalists sometimes question both hydrogen and direct carbon capture technologies, in part because they're relatively untested. But since the law's passage last year, announcements of carbon capture projects - including a large one in Wyoming - have spiked.
Project Bison, a carbon capture facility under development by the firm CarbonCapture, is set to be the biggest project of its kind, and big names like BCG and Microsoft have signed on for its carbon removal credits.
Jonas Lee, CarbonCapture's chief commercial officer, said that, without the law, the project would most likely have been smaller and slower moving. Even with the law's help, its planned opening this year has been delayed. Mr. Lee did not provide a reason or a new opening date, but said the firm still expected to operate at scale.
Rusty Bell, the director of the Office of Economic Transformation at the Gillette College Foundation in Wyoming, thinks the administration's climate push is destined for such hiccups. New technologies take time to roll out. The maze of incentives and grants on offer can be difficult to navigate.
But Mr. Bell, who wrote the opinion essay with Mr. Wendt, also says Campbell County, where he is based, recognizes that its future as a coal-producing area will hinge partly on seizing new technologies. Residents can look at flailing coal communities elsewhere and realize "we don't want to be like that in 10, 15, 20 years," he said.
#198
A two-week marathon of climate talks has entered its grueling final dash. Developed and developing nations were still deadlocked over how many hundreds of billions of dollars wealthy countries should invest to help speed the global transition to cleaner energy and protect the most vulnerable countries against the drumbeat of catastrophes that accompany global warming.
The seemingly sleepless deliberations at the summit, which is scheduled to end on Friday, resemble a tug of war: The world's poorest and most vulnerable countries have banded together with newly industrialized economic giants like China and India to demand that history's biggest greenhouse gas polluters, including the United States and Europe, come up with a plan to provide $1.3 trillion in climate financing per year.
To put that number in context: Western countries have struggled to cobble together the $100 billion per year they promised at a climate summit 15 years ago. The financing question has become even trickier with a recent rightward political shift in some of those countries, notably the election of Donald J. Trump as U.S. president just a week before the start of this year's climate summit, known as COP29.
Though U.N. climate summits normally run into overtime, they rarely collapse entirely. But money is such a contentious issue that the possibility of failure loomed over the negotiations on Thursday.
The overarching objective of the talks, being held in Baku, Azerbaijan, is to set a new goal for annual financial flows. The $1.3 trillion number is based on cost estimates by the Independent High-Level Expert Group on Climate Finance, a new body appointed by the United Nations, for developing and deploying technology that would hold the global temperature increase below 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, compared with the preindustrial average.
"There is a clear obligation from developed countries," said Ali Mohamed, Kenya's lead negotiator, reacting to a draft resolution made public on Thursday morning that showed the two sides still far apart. "It is very frustrating. We need a justifiable number that will meet what we need."
The United States, the world's biggest economy and history's biggest emitter, is expected to withdraw from the Paris Agreement when Mr. Trump takes office, which means the country would very likely renege on whatever financial commitments the final agreement sets out.
That has prompted Western negotiators in Baku to try to shift more reliance onto the private sector and lending institutions like the World Bank, rather than national budgets, as ultimate sources of climate finance.
Rivals of the West have capitalized on the disappointment felt by the rest of the world and sought to portray the deadlock as a betrayal.
"Western countries and Europe are trying to dilute what is already in the Paris Agreement," said Ruslan Edelgeriev, the head of the Russian delegation in Baku and the chief climate adviser to President Vladimir V. Putin. He said he had seen "no great desire to increase" the amount of climate finance from developed nations in the negotiations he had attended.
India, like many developing countries, has used the negotiations to remind developed countries and the lending institutions they control that no emerging economy will limit its growth voluntarily. They say that not only is there not enough money for clean energy investments, but also that developing countries are locked out of much of it by onerous interest rates, which make renewable sources more expensive than fossil fuels like coal and oil.
"India's investment needs for clean energy alone amount to half a trillion dollars per year," said Arunabha Ghosh, who leads the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a prominent Indian research organization monitoring the talks. "But what I'm hearing is the same old, same old. On one level, recognition that the planet is off track, but there's a lack of credible action and accountability. No one comes across as a clear leader."
Decisions at COP summits must be reached by unanimous consent. That means geopolitical blocs, or even individual countries, can drive hard bargains that threaten to derail the talks entirely.
Further complicating the talks, under U.N. rules set down decades ago, China is considered a developing country. Western nations have pushed for the list of developed countries to be expanded to include China and others, like Saudi Arabia, essentially drafting them into a list of donor countries that would be held accountable for financial contributions. China has recently overtaken Europe as the second-largest emitter of greenhouse gases in history.
The Azerbaijani hosts, who have no leadership experience from past summits, have delegated responsibility to Ana Toni, Brazil's top climate official at the conference, and her British counterpart, Alok Sharma, to be the final agreement's main shepherds.
"It's about achieving balance," Ms. Toni said. "You are trying to make everyone equal, either in their happiness or unhappiness, with the final agreement's language."
Several Western officials, speaking anonymously to discuss the continuing negotiations, pointed to what they said was a "landing zone" that would involve a relatively modest increase in upfront finance pledges - to $200 billion or $300 billion a year from $100 billion a year - with heavy emphasis on efforts to reach into the trillions by leveraging private capital.
As with all COP resolutions, that will require deftly crafted language. Developing countries will need to feel assured that, while the resolution is ultimately nonbinding, its terms aren't riddled with so many loopholes that they water down the core message that the financial obligation of wealthy countries is now of an order many times higher.
The talks coincide with another year of record-breaking heat.
Global greenhouse gas emissions soared to a record 57 gigatons last year, and they are not on track to decline much, if at all, this decade, according to a U.N. report issued just before the summit. Collectively, nations have been so slow to curtail their use of oil, gas and coal that it now looks nearly impossible to limit the global temperature rise to the strictest targets set in the 2015 Paris climate agreement.
Scientists say every fraction of a degree of warming brings greater risks from deadly heat waves, wildfires, drought, storms and species extinction.
#199
Once again, major oil producers have postponed a plan to increase production, a decision that comes amid a weak market that is facing slow global demand and increased output from other countries.
The oil cartel, known as OPEC Plus, had planned to start opening the taps in January, which would have amounted to additional production of more than two million barrels a day. But in a news release issued on Thursday by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, eight countries, including Saudi Arabia and Russia, said they would delay starting planned gradual increases until at least April.
The delay is the third time that these countries have put the brakes on planned increases, which were first announced in June. The prospect of more oil output has weighed on markets.
"It's a recognition that the market is not ready yet for them to increase production," said Richard Bronze, head of geopolitics at Energy Aspects, a research firm in London.
In addition, Mr. Bronze said the group might not have wanted to move when the effect of a Trump presidency on the oil market was still far from clear. President-elect Donald J. Trump may, for instance, take a tougher line with Iran, reducing the Islamic republic's oil sales, which would create space for more output from other countries.
January also tends to be a time of weak demand because of refinery maintenance that reduces the need for crude oil.
Oil prices were steady on Thursday with Brent crude, the international benchmark, trading at $72.44 a barrel.
Homayoun Falakshahi, an analyst at Kpler, a research firm, said on a webinar on Thursday that OPEC Plus was unlikely to begin the output increases until late next year.
It is not going to be easy to find a right time to start increasing output. The combination of tepid global demand growth and anticipated increases in production from countries like the United States, Guyana and Brazil is squeezing out OPEC and its allies. The transition to electric vehicles, even if slower than some anticipated, will also gradually cut into demand.
In response, the oil cartel has entered into a series of agreements on production cuts that analysts say are confusing and difficult even for oil market experts to follow.
Along with the cuts extended to April, OPEC Plus also said it would extend a separate package of reductions of 1.7 million barrel a day, originally agreed to in 2023, to December 2026.
#200
Two European energy giants, TotalEnergies of France and Shell of Britain, are considering moving their stock listings to New York, as pressure mounts for them to improve their valuations, which lag their American counterparts.
Shifting their listings to the United States would be a blow to European exchanges, where they are among the largest listed companies.
In the past, it would have been almost unthinkable for TotalEnergies, one of France's most prominent companies, to consider moving its primary share listing from Paris. But the company's chief executive, Patrick Pouyanné, discussed considering such a shift to analysts recently.
"There was a discussion with the board," Mr. Pouyanné said on a recent call to discuss earnings. "We all agreed that we have to seriously look at it."
Shell, Europe's largest energy company, has said it might consider a similar move. But a shift is not currently on the table, said Wael Sawan, chief executive of the company, which recently moved its headquarters from The Hague in the Netherlands to London, where it is the largest listed company by market value.
Any move would reflect the almost irresistible lure of the United States as a center of energy production and innovation as well as investment.
The United States has become the world's leading oil producer and exporter of liquefied natural gas. Europe's petroleum production, by contrast, is in decline, and many European governments are skeptical about the oil and gas industry, which remains crucial to global energy supplies despite concerns over climate change. The Biden administration's Inflation Reduction Act may also confer an advantage to the United States in cleaner energy technologies like hydrogen and electric vehicles.
A key factor in making these companies restless is the large differential in the valuation that investors are willing to pay for the energy giants based in the United States compared with their European counterparts.
The two largest American energy companies, Exxon Mobil and Chevron, enjoy share price to earnings ratios, a valuation metric, that are at least a third higher than those of European rivals, according to a recent study by Giacomo Romeo, an analyst at the investment bank Jefferies. The debate over listing in New York is "becoming a key topic" among investors, he said in a note to clients.
A lower stock valuation not only ego is deflating for executives, it also puts these companies at a disadvantage in using their shares to participate in a wave of industry consolidation. Exxon Mobil, for instance, recently bought Pioneer Natural Resources, a major shale drilling company, for $60 billion, while Chevron reached a deal to pay $53 billion for Hess, though legal issues over Guyana are complicating the sale. Their European peers have largely been left on the sidelines.
The European companies have come to view steps like listings in the United States as a potential way to bolster their valuation and close the gap with rivals. Mr. Pouyanné, for instance, said that the number of North American shareholders in TotalEnergies was growing, but large investors faced hurdles in putting money into the French company's shares, including time differences with the European markets and fluctuating foreign-exchange rates.
But any move could face pushback. Already France's finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, has vowed to fight a move by TotalEnergies. "I'm here to make sure that doesn't happen," he said.
It would be hard to overstate the importance of TotalEnergies to France. The company is a key domestic energy supplier and a major overseas investor, and it is leading France's transition to lower carbon energy through investments in solar and wind power and other cleaner technologies.
A move by Shell seems more logical in some respects. It is one of the largest foreign investors in the United States, with more capital there than in any other country.
Shell has suffered a series of setbacks in Europe in recent years, including a court ruling that said it needed to speed up its climate change efforts. There are also questions about whether the London Stock Exchange, which has lost favor since Brexit, is the right place for a large company like Shell, which has a market value of about $232 billion.
How effective a move to the United States would be in closing the valuation gap is also open to question. Mr. Romeo of Jefferies said that shifting primary listings alone might not be enough to eliminate the differential, adding that companies might also need to move their headquarters to be included in U.S. index funds, something Mr. Pouyanné has said he would not do.
Mr. Sawan has said that he thinks Shell shares are cheaper than they should be. Yet he is focusing on efforts to bolster the shares through better financial performance and higher rewards for investors. If that effort does not pay off, Shell might look at a move.
"We have a duty of care to look at all opportunities to bridge that valuation," he told analysts on Thursday.
#201
Vice President Kamala Harris has for years made the environment a top concern, from prosecuting polluters as California's attorney general to sponsoring the Green New Deal as a senator to casting the tiebreaking vote as vice president for the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, the largest climate investment in United States history.
As she runs for the White House, Ms. Harris is widely expected to try to protect the climate achievements of the Biden administration, a position that could resonate with voters during a summer of record heat. A clear majority of Americans, 65 percent, wants the country to focus on increasing solar, wind and other renewable energy and not fossil fuels, according to a May survey by the Pew Research Center.
Last year, Ms. Harris flew to the United Nations global climate summit in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, where she told world leaders that "the urgency of this moment is clear. The clock is no longer just ticking, it is banging. And we must make up for lost time."
That was a subtle reference to former President Donald J. Trump, who made the United States the first and only country to withdraw from the global Paris Agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions. (The United States subsequently rejoined under President Biden.) The Republican nominee in the current race for the White House, Mr. Trump has indicated that he would again pull back from the global fight against climate change if he is elected in November.
"Around the world, there are those who seek to slow or stop our progress, leaders who deny climate science, delay climate action, and spread misinformation," Ms. Harris said at the summit. "In the face of their resistance and in the context of this moment, we must do more."
Republicans have targeted the Inflation Reduction Act, promising to overturn it if they win control of Congress and the White House. That law pumps more than $370 billion over 10 years into wind, solar, batteries and electric vehicles. It is designed to help the country move away from fossil fuels, the burning of which is driving up global temperatures. At their convention last week, Republicans promised to halt any transition away from oil, gas and coal, and to promote more fossil fuel development.
Asked if Ms. Harris would pursue the policies she supported as a senator, like the Green New Deal, her climate adviser, Ike Irby, said she would focus on implementing the Inflation Reduction Act, which she helped to pass.
"She will fight every day for all Americans to have access to clean air, clean water, and a healthy environment," Gina McCarthy, who served as national climate adviser under Mr. Biden, said in a statement Sunday. "Vice President Harris would kick ass against Trump."
The vice president incorporated climate change into foreign relations, holding a round table in Bangkok to connect environmental activists with clean energy experts and starting a partnership with Caribbean countries to address climate change.
As a senator from California, the state that is at the forefront of climate policy, Ms. Harris promoted electrifying school buses to reduce greenhouse gases and to cut children's exposure to diesel engine pollution. She also supported efforts to replace lead water pipes and promoted measures to help agriculture become more resilient to drought.
But she also took positions far to the left of Mr. Biden on climate change.
She was an original co-sponsor of the Green New Deal, a nonbinding resolution supported by liberal Democrats that called for the United States to transition to 100 percent clean energy within a decade while providing people with job guarantees and "high-quality health care." The measure never got out of committee.
When Ms. Harris ran for president in 2020, her climate plan called for a $10 trillion increase in spending over a decade as well as a price on carbon, with a dividend that would have been returned directly to households. Economists have said that a carbon tax would be the most effective way to get industries to reduce their pollution.
She also favored a ban on hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, which Mr. Biden said he opposed. Fracking is a technique that injects water and chemicals underground at high pressure to extract oil or gas that is otherwise difficult to access. Environmentalists say it pollutes the air and groundwater. California regulators have taken steps to ban fracking.
Climate Projects Underway
On Monday, the Environmental Protection Agency will announce $4.3 billion in funding for 25 climate projects.
As California's attorney general, Ms. Harris challenged federal approvals of offshore fracking along the California coast. She investigated whether Exxon Mobil lied to the public and its shareholders about the risks to its business from climate change, and whether such actions could amount to securities fraud and violations of environmental laws, but the case did not result in a prosecution.
She would later claim during a Democratic forum on climate change in 2019 that she had sued Exxon Mobil, which fact checkers reported as untrue. She did obtain settlements from other oil and gas companies, including Chevron and BP, over allegations that they violated pollution laws.
In 2019, Ms. Harris joined Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, to introduce legislation that would require the government to consider the impact of environmental regulations or laws on low-income communities, which tend to be disproportionately vulnerable to climate disruption because they are often located in flood zones, near highways, power plants and polluted land.
As vice president, Ms. Harris does not use the phrase "Green New Deal," which has been relentlessly mocked by conservatives, who use it as shorthand for all climate and clean energy policies.
Her Republican opponents are not likely to let her forget it, though.
"During her ill-fated and short-lived 2020 presidential campaign, Harris was an early and enthusiastic supporter of the Green New Deal and called for so-called 'carbon neutrality' by 2030, all of it with a $10 trillion price tag," Daniel Turner, executive director of Power The Future, a group that advocates for fossil fuels, said in a statement.
He called Ms. Harris part of the "climate cult that calls the shots in today's Democratic Party."
Evergreen Action, an environmental group, endorsed Ms. Harris on Sunday. The youth-led Sunrise Movement, which last week called on Mr. Biden to end his bid for re-election, praised his decision to step away. The group did not directly endorse Ms. Harris but said any replacement must "put forth a bold vision to tackle the climate crisis and fight for our generation."
Other organizations said they were holding back an endorsement until the Democratic nomination process is completed.
#202
In a new lawsuit, the state's attorney general claims oil companies deceived the public about fossil fuel products' contributions to climate change.
Maine has become the latest state to sue oil and gas companies over climate change, claiming that Exxon Mobil, Shell, Chevron and other giants waged a decades-long campaign to conceal the effects of fossil fuels and contributed to the extreme weather that has pummeled the state in recent years.
The lawsuit accuses the companies of having withheld what they knew about the consequences of fossil fuel use since the 1960s, leading to a financial burden on the state as it contends with sea-level rise, storms and warmer temperatures. The complaint, filed Tuesday in a Maine state court, includes seven alleged violations, including failure to warn, negligence, nuisance, trespass and unfair trade practices. It also names the American Petroleum Institute, an industry group, which the lawsuit alleges "aided and abetted" deceptive conduct by the fossil fuel companies.
"For over half a century, these companies chose to fuel profits instead of following their science to prevent what are now likely irreversible, catastrophic climate effects," said the Maine attorney general, Aaron M. Frey, a Democrat. "In so doing, they burdened the State and our citizens with the consequences of their greed and deception."
The state said in the filing that it was seeking a jury trial and funding for past damage as well as for climate adaptation, mitigation and resilience measures in Maine.
Gov. Janet Mills, a Democrat, said that the storms that wracked the state last winter were just "further proof that climate change is harming our lives, our health and our economy - and it is time for the fossil fuel industry to be held responsible."
Exxon Mobil rebutted the lawsuit's claims and said that it had invested more than $20 billion in lower-emission initiatives.
"Well over half of the households in Maine use petroleum products for home heating - a larger share than any other state," the company said on Tuesday. "These baseless claims ignore the state's historic dependence on oil and natural gas, do nothing to address the risks of climate change and waste taxpayer dollars."
A spokeswoman for Shell said that the company agreed that "action is needed now on climate change" and that it supported the transition to a lower-carbon future.
"We do not believe the courtroom is the right venue to address climate change, but that smart policy from government and action from all sectors is the appropriate way to reach solutions and drive progress," she said.
Theodore J. Boutrous Jr. of the law firm Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher, which represents Chevron, pointed to recent setbacks for climate change litigation at the federal level and in lower courts, including the dismissal in July of a lawsuit by Baltimore.
"Addressing climate change requires a coordinated federal and international policy response, not meritless state court litigation attacking essential energy production," he said.
Ryan Meyers, senior vice president and general counsel at the American Petroleum Institute, said that Maine's action was part of an "ongoing, coordinated campaign to wage meritless, politicized lawsuits against a foundational American industry and its workers." He added that climate policy is a matter for Congress, not a "patchwork of courts."
Eight other states and numerous local and tribal governments have filed similar suits across the county; none have gone to trial yet. The legal approach is reminiscent of the campaigns that led to landmark settlements with tobacco and opioid companies. But the efforts against fossil fuel companies, generally led by Democrats, could be thwarted in higher courts.
The oil companies and their allies have sought to have the cases moved to federal courts, which are widely seen as more favorable venues for them than the lower courts. The companies argue that the regulation of interstate pollution is governed by federal law, not the state level. The U.S. Supreme Court has signaled that it may consider that question in a case brought by Honolulu against Sunoco and other companies. A decision against Honolulu there could scuttle the prospects for the whole batch of litigation.
Another case could also occlude those lawsuits. Republican-led states, spearheaded by Alabama, have asked the Supreme Court to block climate suits by filed by California, Connecticut, Minnesota, New Jersey and Rhode Island. Their motion alleges that those states "assert the power to dictate the future of the American energy industry" and impose "ruinous liability and coercive remedies on energy companies."
A somewhat related climate suit brought by New York State - but built on very different legal grounds - failed in 2019. The state attorney general had sued Exxon Mobil for securities fraud, accusing the company of having made misleading claims to investors about how it accounted for the costs of climate change regulation. A judge called the lawsuit "hyperbolic" in his decision in Exxon's favor.
#203
Joe Manchin III, the Democratic senator from West Virginia, has been one of the Senate's most consistent and strident defenders of fossil fuels - except for one crucial vote.
That contradiction was on full display last week when Manchin announced he would not seek re-election. His decision will have far-reaching consequences, making it more difficult for Democrats to maintain control of the Senate. Manchin might even upend next year's presidential race by running as an independent.
But whatever happens in those future races, Manchin has already had an outsize role in shaping U.S. climate policy, in both directions.
Manchin consistently blocked legislation that would have accelerated the transition from fossil fuels to wind, solar and other clean energy. As chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources committee, he was a reliable ally for the coal and natural gas industries that are crucial to his home state of West Virginia, and his own financial interests.
Since his earliest days as a state senator, Manchin has owned a business that sells low-grade coal, and as a lawmaker he has aided a West Virginia power plant that is his company's sole customer, as my colleagues Christopher Flavelle and Julie Tate reported.
In 2021, Manchin became the crucial swing vote in the evenly divided chamber. For months, he blocked the Biden Administration's landmark climate change law, which included penalties for power companies that did not reduce their coal use.
And then, a surprise: At the eleventh hour, Manchin signed on to pass the bill, renamed as the Inflation Reduction Act, the most potent climate legislation in the country's history.
"His vote on the I.R.A. unleashed historic climate spending that will reshape the American economy," said Abigail Dillen, the president of Earthjustice, an environmental law practice. "But the compromises he exacted have enshrined the role of fossil fuels."
A friend of fossil fuels
During his 2010 Senate campaign, Manchin ran an ad in which he put a bullet through a copy of a proposed bill that would have implemented a cap-and-trade system for fossil fuel emissions. Manchin was elected. The bill cleared the House but never saw a Senate vote.

Manchin has blocked the appointments of several senior officials who would have prioritized climate action. He declined to support President Biden's nomination of Sarah Bloom Raskin for a top position on the Federal Reserve, largely because she favored making companies include the risks of climate change in their financial projections. Manchin has also blocked appointments to top jobs at the Environmental Protection Agency.
He was the largest Senate recipient of donations from oil and gas companies, according to OpenSecrets. An Exxon lobbyist singled out Manchin as a particularly valuable contact.
Manchin's coal business gave him a net worth of between $4.5 million to $12.8 million in 2020, according to Senate disclosures, and, apparently, a taste for driving Maseratis.
The decisive vote
When Biden took office, he immediately tried to pass the Build Back Better Act, which would have deployed more than half a trillion dollars toward promoting renewable energy. After months of waffling, Manchin declared he would not support the bill.
And then, a plot twist: Manchin and Senator Chuck Schumer announced a surprise deal that cleared the way for the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, which has kick-started the country's clean energy economy with hundreds of billions of dollars in tax subsidies.
Manchin's support didn't come without a catch or three. In exchange for his vote, the legislation requires the federal government to auction off more public lands and waters for oil drilling, and expands tax credits for carbon capture technology that could allow coal and gas-burning power plants to keep operating.
He ensured that West Virginia would receive nearly $1 billion in funding to develop a new hydrogen hub, one that uses more polluting sources of energy. He also secured a commitment from Biden to complete a contentious natural gas pipeline.
"To the extent that the U.S. has an all-of-the-above energy policy that enshrines fossil fuels, that's the price that Joe Manchin exacted," Dillen said.
'God will give us time'
When the I.R.A. deal was sealed, one expert on West Virginia predicted of Manchin: "I think he's going to say, 'I used my strategic position to bring back benefits for West Virginia.' And he'll probably do pretty well in the next election."
Instead, not long after the Inflation Reduction Act passed, Manchin began railing against the law that he had written. With polls showing his support for the I.R.A. was costing him support with voters, he declared he was waging an "unrelenting fight against the Biden Administration's efforts to implement the I.R.A. as a radical climate agenda."
And rather than running on the billions of dollars in spending that the law will bring to West Virginia, Manchin decided not to run.
The leading candidate to succeed Manchin, the popular West Virginia governor, Jim Justice, is expected to be even more hostile to climate legislation.
Justice has been dismissive of wind and solar power and a strident supporter of fossil fuels. He has also invoked his Christian faith to downplay the urgency of the climate crisis: "God will give us time for the smart people of the world to solve the riddle. If there is truly climate change going on, He will give us time."
Climate advocates may find that the only thing worse than Joe Manchin as the Senate's swing vote may be not having him there at all.
Nuclear power scales down
The latest piece in our series on the energy transition takes a close look at the growing interest in small nuclear plants.
Around the country, nearly a dozen companies are developing reactors that are significantly smaller than conventional nuclear power plants. The hope is that they will be easier to build, that permits can be issued more quickly, and that they'll be substantially cheaper than earlier nuclear plants, my colleagues Brad Plumer and Ivan Penn report.
The technology could provide steady electricity to the grid to supplement more intermittent wind and solar energy. But the industry faces substantial hurdles.
Beyond persistent concerns about nuclear waste, the industry is struggling to find a profitable path forward. Last week, the first major effort to build small reactors in the United States was abruptly canceled amid soaring costs.
You can read the whole article here.
And, in a related item, my colleague Kenneth Chang takes a look at the growing crop of companies pursuing fusion energy. Fusion power, which creates energy by blasting a tiny bit of hydrogen with lasers to set off a small, controlled thermonuclear explosion, is not yet ready for prime time. But its supporters say that if it can be made reliable and affordable, it could usher in an era of abundant clean energy.
#204
Outside Delta, a one-stoplight town in the scrublands of central Utah, a giant battery is taking shape underground.
Two caverns, each as deep as the Empire State Building is tall, are being created from a geological salt formation, using water to dissolve and remove the salt. When completed next year, the caverns will be able to store a huge amount of energy, but in a form that is vastly different from the chemical batteries found in everything from flashlights to cars.
Here, the energy will be stored as hydrogen gas.
As the world seeks to fight climate change by burning less coal, oil and other fossil fuels, the spotlight is shifting to hydrogen as an alternative. Hydrogen produces no planet-warming emissions when burned, making it a potential replacement fuel in transportation, electricity generation and industries like the making of cement and steel.
But with this project and a second mammoth construction site across the street, developers are taking hydrogen's potential to another level.
The developers, including Chevron, which bought a majority stake in one of the projects in September, plan to produce hydrogen using excess solar and wind power in spring and fall, when demand for electricity is low, and store it in the caverns. Then in the summer, when electricity demand is high, it would be burned in the second project, a power plant that would use a blend of hydrogen and natural gas.
That new plant would replace an aging facility that burns coal, the dirtiest of the fossil fuels, but would still emit some planet-warming gases depending on the mix of natural gas and hydrogen.
Using hydrogen as a battery is one of the more audacious concepts being developed as industries and governments work to wean the world from fossil fuels.
"It's a little bit of a paradigm shift," said John Ward, a spokesman for the Intermountain Power Agency, which is building the new power plant to replace an aging coal-fired one. "We're making hydrogen as an energy storage carrier."
In the United States, the Biden administration has focused intently on hydrogen, last fall awarding a total of $7 billion in development money to seven proposed regional hubs to spur the use of the gas in various industries. Congress approved a lucrative tax credit in 2022 to encourage companies to make more hydrogen from renewable energy and other carbon-free sources.
Mr. Ward was speaking at the power plant construction site, which was swarming with crews working in the shadow of the old coal plant, its twin boilers still fired up and emitting large amounts of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. Construction of the new plant is expected to be completed by 2025 at a cost of $2 billion.
At a nearby railroad siding, workers were using a crane to unload the first of 40 electrolyzers from a rail car. The 100-ton behemoths, each roughly the size of a large shipping container, will be used to generate the hydrogen by splitting water molecules. The process, electrolysis, has been used for decades, although not at this scale. The cost of this project is expected to be more than $1 billion.
Because the electricity would come from solar and wind power, this would be "green" hydrogen, produced with no planet-warming emissions. Currently almost all hydrogen is made by using natural gas. That's far cheaper, but the process generates planet-warming carbon dioxide. (No matter how it's made, hydrogen when burned produces mostly water vapor and no carbon dioxide.)
In any project involving hydrogen, there are questions about the potential climate effects of gas leaks during storage and transport. While hydrogen is not a greenhouse gas, its reactions with other chemicals can lead to greater warming.
And the Delta projects raise further questions about the cost and efficiency of using electricity to make hydrogen and then using the hydrogen to make electricity again, and about whether the new power plant can eventually become emissions-free by burning only hydrogen by 2045.
For the people of Delta, a farming community of about 3,000, it is unsettling to exchange the coal plant, a reliable, well-paying employer for nearly 40 years, for what is for now only a promise of a clean energy future focused on hydrogen.
"The immediate impact will definitely be hard," said Nicholas Killpack, a City Council member, as the hydrogen storage project and the new power plant together will employ about 200 workers, far fewer than the 500 who worked at the coal plant at its peak. "But our best option going forward is to lean into this thing."
If it works as planned, the hydrogen project will be an alternative to the utility-scale chemical storage batteries that have been installed to quickly provide energy to the nation's power grid. Such "dispatchable" energy is considered critical to fill in gaps and keep the electricity supply consistent as more and more power is provided by intermittent sources like solar panels and wind turbines.
"You need more robust energy storage to have a reliable grid," Mr. Ward said. "And that's what this is about."
The hydrogen project would contain a lot of dispatchable power. The two caverns are deep, and when full would hold far more energy in the form of hydrogen than all the chemical storage batteries installed in the United States so far.
"It's a massive amount of storage," said Jigar Shah, head of the Department of Energy's loan program office, which issued a $504 million loan guarantee for the project. "And it comes at the exact right time" in the West, he said, where there are many new renewable energy projects that together can produce more electricity than needed in the spring and fall. "This is a great way to deal with all that excess supply."
The scale of the hydrogen project will serve as a catalyst to help bring down the cost of electrolyzers so that green hydrogen eventually becomes less expensive, Mr. Shah said. "If someone doesn't go first," he said, "then we'll never get to the cost reductions in the future."
Chevron declined to make executives available for comment, but in a statement announcing it had bought a controlling interest in the hydrogen project, the company said that in addition to supplying the gas to the new power plant, it was developing "several other opportunities" to sell hydrogen to customers in the utility, transportation and industrial sectors in the West.
The storage project and new power plant have been in the planning stages for more than a decade, the result of a confluence of factors.
The coal-fired plant, which was dedicated in 1987 at a ceremony that featured the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, is due to shut down because it stands to lose its major customers, Los Angeles and other cities in Southern California, as that state has moved to sharply reduce greenhouse gas emissions from power generation.
But because the coal plant sends power to Southern California, there is a long-distance, high-voltage transmission line already in place. At a time when building new lines is costly and can take a decade or longer, an existing line is invaluable. It could carry electricity from the new natural gas-hydrogen plant and also could bring in renewable power for the hydrogen project.
And in what Mr. Ward called the "happiest of coincidences," geology played a role, too. As it happens, the area is underlain by salt domes, underground columns of salt that can be dissolved with water, leaving impermeable caverns that are ideal for gas storage.
"You put that all together and it all points to the project we have under construction today," said Greg Huynh, a manager with the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, which, because it is a major electricity customer, is deeply involved in building the new power plant.
The caverns are created by a process called solution mining, in which a well is drilled into the salt and high-pressure water is pumped down. As the salt dissolves, the resulting brine comes to the surface and is stored in large containment ponds. The caverns are about 200 feet in diameter and 1,200 feet high, with their tops 3,000 to 4,000 feet below the surface.
Hydrogen molecules are especially small and can easily escape in storage and transport if care is not taken.
The Delta hydrogen project "is an example of the kinds of challenges that all these hubs are going to face," said Beth Trask, an associate vice president at the Environmental Defense Fund who works on energy transition issues. "To get hydrogen right, that means you have to ensure that it's produced cleanly, it's managed carefully, it's deployed and used responsibly. All these things really, really matter."
Mr. Ward said the projects were being planned so that the production, storage and transportation of hydrogen, by a short pipeline to the power plant, would be safe and secure.
"We're integrating mature technologies at utility scale," he said. "This isn't a science fair experiment."
Because hydrogen contains less energy by volume than natural gas, the power plant is being designed with larger pipes and other features so that it can initially run a mix containing up to 30 percent hydrogen. There are few large natural gas plants around the world operating with any hydrogen at all, much less such a high percentage of the gas.
And utility-scale turbines that can burn only hydrogen have yet to be developed. So getting to 100 percent hydrogen in the next 20 years, if it can be achieved, would very likely require major upgrades, if not a complete rebuilding, of the Delta plant, said Ilissa Ocko, a scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund.
"The costs can very easily add up when you make the adjustments that you need to the infrastructure," she said. "There are so many complicating factors here that can make it very easily turn into something that is not beneficial to the climate."
#205
The flames and smoke from a burning Mercedes-Benz electric sedan spread rapidly through the underground parking lot of an apartment complex in South Korea this month. The fire damaged almost 900 cars, and 23 people suffered smoke inhalation.
It took firefighters more than eight hours to put out the blaze, which reached temperatures above 1,500 degrees Celsius, according to officials in Incheon, the city near Seoul where the fire broke out around dawn on Aug. 1.
Fires are much less common in electric vehicles than in gasoline-powered ones, and the cause of the Incheon blaze has not been disclosed. But across South Korea, one of the world's biggest car producers, it caught the public's attention because of its scale and intensity, and it raised safety fears that some say could impede the government's aggressive push toward electric vehicles.
One popular secondhand car sales platform, K Car, said that listings by E.V. owners hoping to sell their vehicles had nearly tripled since the fire.
"I know that E.V.s might be the more environmentally friendly choice, but I'm still afraid of it catching fire," said Lee Min, an office worker in Seoul who is hoping to buy her first car. "I got even more scared after seeing the Incheon incident."
News coverage of the fire, and social media's reaction to it, have focused on perceived risks from battery charging, and car makers and government officials have tried to assuage those fears. The municipal government in Seoul said that by the end of next month, it would prevent E.V.s from being fully charged in parking lots beneath residential buildings, limiting them to 90-percent capacity to prevent the risk of overcharging, though some experts have questioned whether that would do much to improve safety.
Some automakers, including Mercedes-Benz Korea, have offered owners free safety checks on their E.V.s and identified their battery suppliers. The German automaker said a Chinese company, Farasis Energy, had supplied the battery in the sedan that caught fire. Farasis did not respond to a request for comment.
"The popularity of E.V.s is going to decrease for the next while," said Lee Ho-Guen, a professor of automotive engineering at Daeduk University in the city of Daejeon. "People are scared."
Before the fire, South Korea's E.V. market had been growing at a clip, accounting for 9.3 percent of new cars in the country last year, according to official data.
The national government has rolled out subsidies for buyers as well as tax breaks for E.V. makers, part of an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by around 40 percent by 2030, compared to 2018 levels. It hopes to end sales of gasoline-powered cars by 2035. The government has spent 371.5 billion Korean won, or about $280 million, to install charging facilities.
There have been almost 200 electric vehicle fires across the nation over the past six and a half years, according to government figures. That does not include a fire at a lithium battery factory near the capital that killed 23 workers in June, one of the country's worst industrial disasters in recent years.
Lithium, which is used in most E.V. batteries, can store large amounts of energy in a small space, but it burns intensely when on fire. There are no government-approved extinguishers designed for lithium battery fires, according to South Korea's national fire department.
Electric vehicles catch fire less frequently than other types of vehicles. For every 100,000 E.V.s, there are just 25 fires, compared to 1,530 for gasoline-powered vehicles, according to the United States' National Transportation and Safety Board. Battery fires, however, can be much larger and more damaging, Mr. Lee, the engineering professor, said.
Despite the statistics, fires have raised concern about E.V.s' safety in many countries, including the United States. The Incheon blaze resonated in South Korea because many people live in apartment blocks and share underground parking lots.
Security video footage released by news outlets shows smoke coming out of the Mercedes EQE 350 before it burst into flames. The vehicle, which was on a floor with a capacity for about 2,000 cars, was not plugged in at the time, according to the local fire department.
Hundreds of residents have been temporarily moved out of the building while repair work takes place.
Days after the fire, Mathias Vaitl, the president of Mercedes-Benz Korea, said the company would pay 4.5 billion won, or around $3.4 million, to affected residents. Mercedes-Benz said in a statement it was deeply sorry to all impacted by the fire, but did not comment on the cause.
The German automaker released a list of its battery suppliers in the wake of the fire, and other companies followed suit, including Hyundai and Kia. Over the weekend, the government said it would require all automakers to disclose their battery suppliers by early next year.
The government discussed comprehensive measures to alleviate public concern and ensure that such a mass fire doesn't happen again, a spokeswoman said at a televised briefing on Sunday.
Mr. Lee, the engineering professor, said the government needed to upgrade charging infrastructure and fire-response systems. He said that a 90-percent cap on battery charges, on its own, was unlikely to prevent all fires.
"It's like asking a smoker to smoke two cigarettes instead of three," he said.
#205
During the scorching summer of 2023, the Texas energy grid wobbled as surging demand for electricity threatened to exceed supply. Several times, officials called on residents to conserve energy to avoid a grid failure.
This year it turned out much better - thanks in large part to more renewable energy.
The electrical grid in Texas has breezed through a summer in which, despite milder temperatures, the state again reached record levels of energy demand. It did so largely thanks to the substantial expansion of new solar farms.
And the grid held strong even during the critical early evening hours - when the sun goes down and the nighttime winds have yet to pick up - with the help of an even newer source of energy in Texas and around the country: batteries.
The federal government expects the amount of battery storage capacity across the country, almost nonexistent five years ago, to nearly double by the end of the year. Texas, which has already surpassed California in the amount of power coming from large-scale solar farms, was expected to gain on its West Coast rival in battery storage as well.
The swift growth of battery storage as a source of power for the electric grid, along with the continued expansion of large-scale solar farms, could not have come at a better time. Texas, like many other states, is facing a surge in its power needs from data centers, new manufacturing plants, cryptocurrency mines, growing residential demand and increasingly intense summer heat. Officials estimate that Texas, already the nation's largest electricity consumer, could roughly double its demand in just a few years.
"Every state is going to go through this. Texas just happens to be the farthest along because we are growing our energy usage first," said Michael Lee, the chief executive of Octopus Energy U.S., a subsidiary of the British electricity provider. "We're seeing this in every other state, and all over the world."
Renewable energy sources have taken off in Texas, the nation's premier oil-and-gas state, in large part because of the relatively easy process for connecting to the state's grid and its mostly deregulated market for energy, company leaders and energy experts said.
But some of those same advantages have also come under scrutiny since the grid's catastrophic failure during a prolonged winter freeze that killed hundreds in the state in 2021.
Gov. Greg Abbott took steps to try to prevent a similar failure from happening again. Since then, leaders in the Texas Capitol, along with energy companies of all types, have been debating how to ensure there is always enough energy supply, while also preserving the state's relatively free market.
Since the winter storm, Mr. Abbott, and the state's lieutenant governor, Dan Patrick, have pushed for the construction of new gas-fired power plants, arguing that predictable, "dispatchable" energy is more reliable in an emergency than wind and solar.
In the energy market in Texas, mostly deregulated in the 2000s, generators are paid, with some exceptions, only for the energy they actually provide to the grid, rather than for having capacity to do so in the future. And in contrast to other states, the main electricity grid in Texas is contained entirely within the state.
In a somewhat unlikely turn, renewable energy companies have been arguing for keeping the market open and less regulated, while Republican leaders have pushed for increasing government intervention, including incentives to build additional gas-fired power plants.
"The abject irony is that the once-freewheeling power market is now on the precipice of becoming fully government-controlled," said Aaron Zubaty, the chief executive of Eolian, which invests in energy projects. "New technologies have provided market solutions and scaled rapidly," he said. The result, he added, is that legacy gas-fired power generators and their political backers are trying to increase barriers for the newcomers and "push the market to go all-in on natural gas."
He pointed to the swift growth of batteries, even without any state mandates, as an example of why interventions were not necessary to bring innovation.
The increasing importance of batteries to the Texas electricity grid could be seen on a Tuesday in August when the state hit a new high for energy demand, a load that might have threatened the grid only a few years ago. But that day, the state produced near-record amounts of solar energy. When the sun went down, large-scale batteries put out more power than ever before.
Texans barely noticed the crunch. The air-conditioners hummed along.
Demand for power in Texas is growing at a rapid clip. A big part of the increase, experts said, has been from the electrification of the oil and gas fields of the Permian Basin - an expanse of oil-rich West Texas where fracking has boomed. In other words, oil and gas companies are increasingly turning to electricity to power their operations in Texas.
Despite few people living there, the region is expected to see energy demands rivaling those of major cities.
"The Permian Basin is forecasting to become about the size, electrically, of the Houston area," said Pablo Vegas, the head of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, the state's market operator, known as ERCOT.
Texas, which is the nation's second most populous state, already consumes far more energy than any other state. Officials recently changed how they calculate the potential growth in energy demand and now estimate that the state could nearly double its peak demand by 2030.
The current record for demand at a single time (that Tuesday in August) was about 86 gigawatts. (By contrast, the demand record in California, set in 2022, is 52 gigawatts.)
In six years, ERCOT has said, Texas could see peak demand above 150 gigawatts. The forecast raised concern among some state leaders about the grid's ability to meet such fast-rising demand. Mr. Patrick said in a social media post that the state should take "a close look" at the increased demand from data centers and crypto mines.
The state's power needs are a big reason that efforts by some Republicans in the legislature to rein in renewables - sometimes called "unreliables" by critics - are unlikely to succeed, said Ed Hirs, an economist and energy fellow at the University of Houston.
"At this point the legislature can't do anything to stop the growth of solar and wind and batteries," Mr. Hirs said. "The state desperately needs it."
Much like an external battery for a cellphone, batteries that connect to an electricity grid are meant to provide stored energy for a short time, running only for a few hours. They charge up when energy is plentiful, and prices are low, and they put out their power when energy supplies begin to flag, and prices rise. As a result, the growth in batteries complements the development of wind and especially solar power, whose ups and downs vary throughout the day.
The potential pricing windfall has led businesses to rush to build more battery facilities. The queue for new energy projects waiting to link to the Texas grid includes nearly as much power from batteries as from solar, according to ERCOT data.
"Texas is such a unique place," said Matthew Boms, the executive director of the Texas Advanced Energy Business Alliance, which promotes renewable energy businesses. "You have a free market and a grid that's all in one state. That's attracted all this private investment in battery storage, and solar and wind."
The result has been a lot of recent construction.
Not far from downtown Houston, by the site of a former gas-fired power plant, large containers filled with small lithium-ion battery cells - half a million cells in total - sit in neat rows. They were not doing much on a relatively cool and cloudy late summer day, but were ready to discharge power to the grid when needed.
The batteries, owned by Jupiter Power, began operating last month. "Two or three years ago there were barely any batteries anywhere," Andy Bowman, the chief executive of Jupiter Power, said. "That's capitalism working."
#206
At a two-hour drive from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia's capital, rows of solar panels extend to the horizon like waves on an ocean. Despite having almost limitless reserves of oil, the kingdom is embracing solar and wind power, partly in an effort to retain a leading position in the energy industry, which is vitally important to the country but fast changing.
Looking out over 3.3 million panels, covering 14 square miles of desert, Faisal Al Omari, chief executive of a recently completed solar project called Sudair, said he would tell his children and grandchildren about contributing to Saudi Arabia's energy transition. "I'm really proud to be part of it," he said.
Although petroleum production retains a crucial role in the Saudi economy, the kingdom is putting its chips on other forms of energy. Sudair, which can light up 185,000 homes, is the first of what could be many giant projects intended to raise output from renewable energy sources like solar and wind to around 50 percent by 2030. Currently, renewable energy accounts for a negligible amount of Saudi electricity generation.
Analysts say achieving that hugely ambitious goal is unlikely. "If they get 30 percent, I would be happy because that would be a good signal," said Karim Elgendy, a climate analyst at the Middle East Institute, a research organization in Washington.
Still, the kingdom is planning to build solar farms at a rapid pace.
"The volumes you see here, you don't see anywhere else, only in China," said Marco Arcelli, chief executive of Acwa Power, Sudair's Saudi developer and a growing force in the international electricity and water industries.
The Saudis not only have the money to expand rapidly, but are free of the long permit processes that inhibit such projects in the West. "They have a lot of investment capital, and they can move quickly and pull the trigger on project development," said Ben Cahill, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research institution in Washington.
Even Saudi Aramco, the crown jewel of the Saudi economy and the producer of nearly all its oil, sees a shifting energy landscape.
To gain a foothold in solar, Aramco has taken a 30 percent stake in Sudair, which cost $920 million, the first step in a planned 40-gigawatt solar portfolio - more than Britain's average power demand - intended to meet the bulk of the government's ambitions for renewable energy.
The company plans to set up a large business of storing greenhouse gases underground. It is also funding efforts to make so-called e-fuels for automobiles from carbon dioxide and hydrogen, notably at a refinery in Bilbao, Spain, owned by Repsol, the Spanish energy company.
Aramco's computer scientists are also training artificial intelligence models, using nearly 90 years of oil field data, to increase the efficiency of drilling and extraction, thus reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
"Environmental stewardship has always been part of our modus operandi," said Ashraf Al Ghazzawi, Aramco's executive vice president for strategy and corporate development.
Still, pressure to accelerate the energy transition may grow in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere in the Middle East and North Africa, a region that has young, environmentally aware populations and that could be especially vulnerable to climate change.
"Countries from the MENA region, including Saudi Arabia, will face the impacts of climate change and extreme temperatures, water scarcity," said Shady Khalil, lead campaigner for Greenpeace Middle East and North Africa, an environmental group.
Although it insists that petroleum has a long future, Saudi Aramco, the world's largest oil company, seems to also be trying to signal that it is not locked in a pollution-belching past but is more like a Silicon Valley company focused on innovation.
Recently, the company invited a group of journalists to a presentation during which young Saudis described green practices like using drones rather than lumbering fleets of trucks when prospecting for oil or restoring mangrove swamps along tropical coastlines to soak up carbon dioxide.
In the last two years, Saudi Arabia has instructed Aramco to sharply pare back oil production to nine million barrels a day, in line with agreements in the group known as OPEC Plus. In January, Aramco announced that the Saudi government had told it to halt an effort to boost the amount of oil it could produce.
In Aramco's view, these decisions are not harbingers of declining fossil fuel consumption. Executives insist that the company will continue to invest in oil and, at the same time, sharply increase output of natural gas.
These fuels will continue to "play a very important role" up till 2050 and beyond, Mr. Al Ghazzawi said, arguing that both renewables and oil and gas would be needed to meet growing demand. "We've always felt there has to be a parallel and concurrent investment in new and conventional sources of energy," he said.
The executives said Aramco was well positioned for the coming decades. The combination of some of the world's largest fields and careful stewardship, they said, means it can produce oil at very low cost - $3.19 a barrel on average. The company is also betting that it can make its oil more attractive by chipping away at the emissions caused by producing it - an attribute that is not rewarded by markets now but could eventually command a premium.
"I think ultimately the market will value low-carbon products and the pricing will become even more profitable," said Ahmed Al-Khowaiter, Aramco's executive vice president for technology and innovation.
It is easy to see why Aramco and the Saudi government would be wary of damaging a business that dates to 1938. Aramco continues to be one of the world's most profitable companies: For the first quarter of this year, it earned $27.3 billion and said it would pay out $31.1 billion in dividends, mostly to its main owner, the Saudi government.
It follows, though, that if Aramco cuts back its investment in oil, it will be able to pay even higher dividends to the government that could be used in a wide range of efforts to diversify the economy.
Aramco says it will be putting around 10 percent of its investments into lower-carbon initiatives, but these moves have not shown up much in the financial results. "I just don't think it moves the needle," said Neil Beveridge, an analyst at the research firm Bernstein. "Oil production really accounts for the vast bulk of earnings."
Some of Aramco's initiatives are likely to take years to bear fruit, but conditions already look ripe for solar energy. Saudi Arabia has blazing sun and vast stretches of land that can be populated with solar panels. Add in a close relationship with China, which is supplying much of the renewable equipment including the panels at Sudair, and "they are building at a very low price," said Nishant Kumar, a renewable and power analyst at Rystad Energy, a research firm.
Sudair, for instance, will sell its power at about 1.2 cents per kilowatt-hour, a near record low at the time it was agreed.
"They know very well that the economy can only be efficient if they can continue to take advantage of that ever-reducing solar energy cost," said Paddy Padmanathan, a former chief executive of Acwa Power who is now a renewable entrepreneur.
The kingdom is betting that abundant, low-cost electric power could attract energy-intensive industries like steel. Acwa is helping to build what is likely to be the world's largest plant for making green hydrogen, with an eye to exporting to Europe and other places with higher costs.
The only problem, analysts say, is Saudi Arabia is not moving as fast as it could be. Mr. Kumar figures that it may achieve only about half of the ambitious 2030 goal for solar installations. Wind is lagging even more. One reason: The government has not created the conditions that could bring in competing firms that might bolster output, analysts say.
Acwa, for instance, will be heavily relied upon for meeting the ambitious renewable targets. "We think it is difficult to ignore the operational - and financial risks," analysts at Citigroup wrote recently. The company is listed on the stock exchange, but 44 percent is owned by the Public Investment Fund, the key financing vehicle for the initiatives of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.
Still, renewable energy is already creating jobs. Acwa, for instance, has 3,840 employees with about 1,900 in Saudi Arabia. The opportunity to work in cleaner energy businesses appeals to younger Saudis.
Acwa set an example by installing large arrays of solar panels at a plant it recently built on the Persian Gulf to convert seawater into drinking water. Desalination requires enormous amounts of electricity; the solar energy reduces the need to tap into the power grid and, consequently, cuts emissions.
The developers of two adjacent plants are following suit. "Using this technology is very important," said Nawaf Al-Osimy, chief technical officer of the plant known as Jazlah. "The more you use, the more sustainable it is."
#207
China, the world's biggest source of planet-warming greenhouse gases for most of the past two decades, is seemingly on the verge of bending its emissions curve from years of steep growth into a flat plateau.
The implications for climate change could scarcely be greater. Since China's emissions surpassed those of the United States in 2006, China's global share has grown to almost a third - a huge number, even with population differences taken into account.
A recent spate of data from China's government, as well as reports by energy analysts, have provided positive signs that while China's emissions may not decrease significantly, they also may not grow. China's president, Xi Jinping, had pledged to reach that turning point by 2030.
"The important thing to understand is that when China's emissions stop growing, it likely follows that the world's stop growing, too," said Dave Jones, global insight director at Ember, an energy think tank.
The biggest factor in the shift is changes to how China produces its electricity. In short, renewable sources are replacing coal, the most polluting fossil fuel.
Last year alone, China installed more solar panels than the United States has in its entire history, and connected most of them to its electricity grid.
Almost two-thirds of big wind and solar plants under construction globally are in China, according to a report last week from Global Energy Monitor. That is more than eight times the wind and solar capacity being planned in the United States.
And in May, China generated 53 percent of its electricity from coal, its lowest share since its government began publishing energy data decades ago, while nearly all the rest of it came from non-fossil-fuel sources. "This indicated that China may have peaked" its emissions, said Belinda Schäpe, a China analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air.
However, some observers caution that "peak" was perhaps the wrong word to describe the current trend in China.
"We've been talking about whether there's been a peak for almost a decade," said Li Shuo, the director of China Climate Hub at the Asia Society Policy Institute. "Peaking assumes persistent emissions decline after it is passed. That's not an assumption we can or should make."
Mr. Li said it was more likely that China's emissions would plateau. And he cautioned that while growth in renewable energy was responsible for replacing coal in electricity generation, other factors - such as China's recent real estate crisis and sluggish post-pandemic economy - have led to less consumption of energy overall, which might skew the data downward, but only temporarily.
"If you look at China's emissions profile of the past two decades, one particular source was hugely significant: real estate and construction, whose supply chain made up about a third of all emissions," he said. "That's cooling off."
More reliable signs have come from recent policy shifts, he said. In particular, a new ban on permits for steel factories that would use coal to fire their blast furnaces could have far-reaching effects. A huge push toward electric-vehicle production has also dampened demand for oil.
But, ultimately, China's emissions trajectory will come down to how quickly renewables can displace coal from its electricity mix. While coal's share has fallen, China is still investing in it as a power source.
China alone accounted for two-thirds of the world's newly operating coal plants last year. In 2023, new coal-plant construction hit an eight-year high in China. If China were to build all the others it has proposed, it would add the equivalent of one-third of its current operating fleet. Today, China accounts for around 60 percent of the world's coal use.
Some of China's coal build-out is meant to provide a fallback option for when wind and solar generation dips. But China is also investing heavily in pumped-storage hydropower. Pumped hydro is a way to store energy by pumping water uphill to a reservoir during times of low demand for electricity, then releasing it later to generate extra electricity if demand surges.
Those systems could help reduce the demand for coal power during peak times.
Oil and gas are also used in Chinese industry as power sources. But Mr. Li cautioned that while both China's domestic production of petrochemicals was growing as well as its imports of them, the deciding factor in China's emissions trajectory will be coal's decline.
In the coming months, China's government is expected to unveil new commitments to reduce emissions ahead of November's United Nations-sponsored climate summit, COP 29, in Azerbaijan.
"Diplomatic attention is fixated on the question: Has China peaked or not," said Mr. Li. "You could imagine that if the answer is yes, so far ahead of schedule, it might give China more reason to be even more ambitious with its reduction targets."
#208
Central Sardinia is not generally considered a hotbed of innovation: Arid and rural, some of its road signs riddled with bullet holes made by target-practicing locals, the setting recalls a Clint Eastwood western. Yet in Ottana, on the brownfield site of a former petrochemical plant, a new technology is taking shape that might help the world slow climate change. The key component of this technology is as unlikely as the remote location: carbon dioxide, the chief cause of global warming.
Energy Dome, a start-up based in Milan, runs an energy-storage demonstration plant that helps to address a mismatch in the local electricity market. "In Sardinia during the day, everyone goes to the sea," Claudio Spadacini, chief executive of Energy Dome, said. "They don't use electricity, but there's a lot of supply," he added, referring to the Italian island's abundant sunlight.
Energy Dome uses carbon dioxide held in a huge balloon, the "dome" in the company's name, as a kind of battery. During the day, electricity from the local grid, some produced by nearby fields of solar cells, is used to compress the carbon dioxide into liquid. At night, the liquid carbon dioxide is expanded back into gas, which drives a turbine and produces electricity that is sent back to the grid.
Solar and wind power are fast-growing renewable sources, but they rely on nature's intermittent schedule to produce electricity. Many researchers and policymakers say that storing such energy until needed, for hours or even days, is key to transitioning economies away from fossil fuels. "Advancing energy-storage technologies is critical to achieving a decarbonized power grid," Jennifer M. Granholm, the U.S. energy secretary, said in a 2022 statement, when her department announced that it would commit more than $300 million for long-duration energy storage.
Companies are developing and marketing varied and creative ways to store renewable energy: liquefying carbon dioxide, de-rusting iron, heating towers filled with sand to temperatures almost hot enough to melt aluminum. But predicting our energy-storage needs in the future, after a huge energy transformation, is a daunting prospect, and which of these approaches, if any, will prove effective and profitable is unclear.
"There is a real urgency around decarbonizing electricity on a timeline that is much faster than we've contemplated in the past," said Elaine Hart, founding principal with Moment Energy Insights LLC, a clean-energy consultancy. "We don't need technologies like long-duration energy storage or hydrogen today, but we might need them on a large scale in the next 15 to 20 years, so we're in a critical time for their development."
Supplanting the Standards
For decades, many electric utilities responded to fluctuating demand by using pumped hydroelectric storage, which generates electricity when demand for electricity is high, then pumps water from a lower reservoir to a higher one to store energy when there is excess supply. Some utilities are now installing new pumped hydroelectric storage to balance solar and wind production. Many other utilities are installing arrays of lithium-ion batteries to store excess energy produced by renewables, and that market is booming.
But these storage methods have limitations. Pumped hydroelectric requires - and alters - hilly landscapes, and the facilities cost a lot to build. Lithium is a limited resource that is often dirty to mine, and it becomes excessively expensive when designed to store energy for much more than four hours, which may be an important capability if intermittent sources provide the majority of a grid's power.
"Long-duration storage generally doesn't become necessary until you get to high levels of wind and solar," said Scott Murtishaw, executive director of the California Energy Storage Alliance, an industry group that advocates more storage on electric grids. "But it is critical if you're committed to really decarbonizing the grid."
Westinghouse Electric, a supplier of products and services to nuclear plant operators, says that its new energy-storage technology, which depends on carbon dioxide, like Energy Dome's approach, is an improvement on pumped hydro and lithium-ion. The company's technology works like a heat pump, using carbon dioxide in a supercritical state - at such high temperature and pressure that it acts like a hybrid of a liquid and a gas - to transfer heat, produced by excess electricity, into concrete blocks. Later on, the heat stored in the blocks is used to generate electricity. "It's kind of ironic that carbon dioxide is the material that led to a lot of the innovation here," John Battaglini, Westinghouse's vice-president of new market development for the Americas, said.
In September, Westinghouse announced that it would build a 100-megawatt storage facility in Alaska, enough to supply about 80,000 average American homes with electricity for up to 12 hours. He added that the facility would cost about half that of one using lithium-ion batteries: "We feel very, very good about the economics."
Some companies are anticipating a time when most of our electricity comes from renewables and grids that require much longer-duration storage. Form Energy, based in Somerville, Mass., aims to provide electricity for 100 hours, after some studies found that grids based on renewables would need to be able to provide backup energy for about that long.
To provide that much capacity affordably, Form had to find a very low-cost storage process, so the company turned to a cheap, ubiquitous material that undergoes a well-understood reaction: the oxidation, or rusting, of iron. As iron rusts, it produces energy; by feeding energy back into the system, Form can reverse the reaction and store energy, which can be released later by rusting the iron again.
Form's storage system uses a specially tuned form of iron to maximize reversibility and durability. "That's where there's been a lot of invention on our side," Mateo Jaramillo, Form's co-founder and chief executive, said. "That's one of the key tricks - our trade secret."
Form says it can install storage capacity at a price that's roughly one-tenth that of lithium-ion batteries. "The trade-off is lower cost, lower efficiency," Mr. Jaramillo said. "Our modeling shows we've reached the right level of cost and efficiency."
Last year, Form announced agreements to build plants in six states, each with 100-hour capacity, providing 55 total megawatts. The company is also building a battery-manufacturing facility in Weirton, W.Va., on the site of a former steel plant that declined in recent decades, depressing the local economy. West Virginia's governor, Jim Justice, a Republican, visited the site last December for the signing of a bill that appropriated $105 million from the state to help build the facility.
Mateo Jaramillo, chief executive of Form Energy, which says it can install storage capacity at roughly one-tenth the cost of lithium-ion batteries. "The trade-off is lower cost, lower efficiency," he said.
The Dunkelflaute and Schwarzenegger Effects
Corre Energy, based in the Netherlands, is working on storing energy for several days by compressing air to high pressure inside salt caverns, where natural underground salt deposits are dissolved away to leave large empty pockets.
In June, Corre announced a deal in Germany to provide up to 640 megawatts of electricity, enough to supply about 1.6 million German homes, for up to 125 hours, at about one-tenth the cost of lithium-ion. Corre's partner is developing four caverns there now, with two set to go into operation in 2027.
Corre says that the demand for long-duration storage is high in Northern Europe, which is keen on renewables but prone to multiday periods of little wind and sunlight, known in green-energy circles (and German) as dunkelflaute.
"We're addressing that accelerating demand" for long-duration storage, Keith McGrane, chief executive of Corre, said. "It's the dunkelflaute effect."
Some companies are pursuing approaches that can sound surprisingly simple. A Finnish start-up called Polar Night Energy uses excess electricity to heat sand to temperatures as high as 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit. The sand can later be used to provide up to 100 hours of heat to local homes and businesses. Earlier this month, the company announced a deal to build a storage facility for the town of Pornainen, with a projected reduction of emissions by nearly 70 percent. The company is also developing a method to start providing electricity in addition to heat.
Tommi Eronen, the chief executive of Polar Night Energy, spoke in May at a climate conference in Vienna. He promoted the company to other green-leaning attendees, including the conference founder, Arnold Schwarzenegger. "It was fun to hang out with Arnold for three days. He was a nice guy," Mr. Eronen said. "Of course, we disagree on some points. I'm more into cycling than driving cars."
The road from concept to company and infrastructure is always precarious, and long-term energy storage faces particular challenges.
Utilities have used short-term storage for decades, but there has never been much of a market for storage over many hours or days. It's not clear how storage companies could make enough money to pay for the huge increase in storage that proponents say is necessary. "The biggest challenge with long-duration energy storage is that the economics are lousy," said James Bushnell, an economist at the University of California, Davis, who studies energy. "If your storage is sitting charged for weeks or months, that's much less revenue."
Mr. Battaglini of Westinghouse said the company was exploring this challenge with regional utilities and independent system operators, the nonprofit groups that oversee electric grids. Form Energy has created models to show electric utilities how to use long-duration batteries so that they're profitable.
"You can't know what you need if you can't model it," Mr. Murtishaw said. "It's like the iPhone - a product you didn't know you needed until someone made it."
Another issue for the new storage approaches is the dominance and continued improvement of lithium-ion batteries. As manufacturers improve the design of batteries and scale up their production, the cost continues to decrease, gradually making lithium-ion more economical for longer durations.
These challenges have hurt some makers of long-term storage. Azelio, a company that stored energy as heat in an aluminum alloy inside modular units, declared bankruptcy in July.
Still, some providers of long-duration storage say that the market is growing fast and that they are ramping up construction to meet the demand.
In Ottana, diggers are clearing away blackened rubble from the remains of old industrial buildings to make room for a commercial-scale Energy Dome storage facility that will hold 40 times as much energy as the adjacent pilot plant. Despite the superficial differences, Mr. Spadacini described the shiny Energy Dome facility as a sort of descendant of the dirtier oil-fueled generator that used to run on the same site. "The energy of oil was energy from the sun, and it was stored at some efficiency in oil," he said, noting that oil derives mostly from photosynthetic plants. "We need to store and use that energy as directly and efficiently as possible."
#209
The British government on Tuesday awarded price support contracts for a series of offshore wind farms as part of a wider package for renewable energy, a reversal from a disappointing auction last year in which there were no takers for offshore wind projects.
"The government has shown it takes renewable energy seriously," Duncan Clark, the head of Britain and Ireland for the Danish wind developer Orsted, which received support for two projects in the auction, said in a statement.
Overall the government awarded support for 131 renewable energy projects including onshore wind as well as solar and tidal power. RenewableUK, an industry group, estimates that the installations, if completed, could attract 14 billion pounds, or about $18 billion, in investment and power nearly 11 million homes.
The government of Prime Minister Keir Starmer is betting on offshore wind as "the backbone of the clean energy mission" to shift from oil and gas to renewable energy sources in a matter of years.
The governing Labour Party realized that if it wanted to retain Britain's leading position in offshore wind installation, it needed to substantially increase price supports to help developers tackle the estimated 40 percent increase in the costs of building these projects in recent years. Offshore wind is attractive in Britain because of abundant wind and large areas of shallow seabed off the coasts, especially in the North Sea. Investors are also attracted to the profits from these projects, which can cost billions of dollars.
Stephen Bull, chief executive of Vargronn, which received support for a floating offshore wind farm off Scotland called Green Volt, said in an interview that the auction might not have reversed the impact of last year's failure, but that the results put Britain "on the right track."
In Britain, developers of renewable energy projects are guaranteed that they will receive a capped price for their electricity, providing security for investors.
More than one successful event will be required to revive an industry that has suffered a series of setbacks both in Britain and globally. Several offshore projects have stalled or been canceled in the United States because of higher costs.
During the summer, building was halted on Vineyard Wind near the island of Nantucket, Mass., which was likely to be the first large offshore wind farm off the United States, after a giant wind turbine blade shattered and scattered debris onto New England beaches.

A wind farm under construction in British waters called Dogger Bank has also encountered setbacks. Two blades, which are each more than 300 feet long and weigh tens of tons, have recently been damaged in accidents. All of the blades in these incidents were supplied by GE Vernova.
Analysts called the auction results on Tuesday a success, but Britain will need to step up the pace of building projects to achieve its goal of quadrupling offshore wind capacity by 2030. It may prove even more challenging to build the power lines that will carry the electricity generated by these facilities to population centers.
After the failed auction last year, the government substantially increased the level of the price guarantees it was willing to allow. In the latest auction, the floor prices for offshore wind range up to an estimated £82, or $108, per megawatt-hour, an electricity metric. Over the last year, power prices in Britain have averaged about £70 per megawatt-hour, according to Drax Electric Insights, a website that tracks such metrics.
The government also allowed developers like Orsted and the Spanish utility Iberdrola to bid for new price guarantee levels for projects that had already received such support before inflation surged. The new awards were up to 58 percent higher than those originally awarded in 2022, estimates Deepa Venkateswaran, an analyst at Bernstein, a research firm.
#210
A global campaign to tame inflation is hurting the fight against climate change by steering developing countries away from renewable energy, raising anxieties among the officials gathered at the United Nations climate summit in Dubai.
Those officials say they support efforts by central bankers to bring down rising prices by raising interest rates.
But in interviews in recent days, they worried about the unintended pain those efforts are inflicting on poor countries that are most vulnerable to climate change and face critical choices about what sort of energy systems they will invest in.
Wealthy nations and international agencies must find more creative ways to steer money to countries in Africa, Asia and beyond that are struggling with high interest rates, officials say. Otherwise, the world could miss an opportunity to hold down future greenhouse gas emissions as millions of people in those countries rise out of poverty and consume more power.
"It is a very tough time for many countries," Kristalina Georgieva, an economist and managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said in an interview on Monday. "This is why international support is absolutely paramount. Helping them to stay ahead is in the interests of the countries but also in our interests, everybody's interests. Because where are our emissions growing? These countries."
Central banks around the world, including the U.S. Federal Reserve, have raised interest rates quickly and steeply in an effort to combat what was the sharpest spike in price growth worldwide in nearly 30 years. Inflation has cooled this year, but rates are expected to remain elevated for years to come.
When borrowing costs soar, renewable energy projects tend to get hit harder than fossil fuel projects. That's partly because most of the cost of a wind or solar farm is in the upfront investment, whereas a large portion of the spending in a coal- or gas-fired power plant is in fuel costs, which are spread over time.
High interest rates are also straining government budgets in developing nations in Africa, Asia and beyond, while pushing down the value of their currencies.
Those challenges come as developing nations need to spend hundreds of billions of dollars to adapt to warming temperatures while they are expanding energy production in an effort to raise living standards.
That combination has alarmed political, economic and nonprofit leaders who are gathered at the United Nations climate summit, known as COP28, in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
"The big issue right now is that developing countries are facing crises that they have no control over," said William Asiko, the vice president for Africa at the Rockefeller Foundation. The effect of those crises, he said, is that "it's easier to invest in fossil fuels today."
If interest rates were to rise to 7 percent from 3 percent, the cost of a new gas plant would rise only marginally, one recent analysis found. But the cost of a new offshore wind farm or new solar farm would rise by roughly one-third.
Many renewable developers also sign long-term contracts to sell electricity at a set price before beginning construction, making them particularly vulnerable to rising interest rates and inflation.
Higher rates have already driven up costs for clean-energy projects all around the world, the International Energy Agency said recently. That includes offshore wind farms, new nuclear plants and efforts to upgrade electric grids. They have also made it more expensive for homeowners to borrow money to buy heat pumps and for electric-vehicle shoppers to afford auto loans.
The S&P Global Clean Energy Index, which includes stocks from many of the world's largest renewable energy companies, has declined 28 percent since January. In the United States, higher rates have been blamed, in part, for a scuttled nuclear project in Idaho and projections that the nation's residential solar market could shrink in 2024, the first time that has happened in years.
Orsted, a Danish company, recently canceled plans for two huge offshore wind farms off the coast of New Jersey. The company blamed supply chain delays, but it also said that high inflation and rising interest rates meant that the projects no longer looked as profitable as they did a few years ago.
"The world has, in many ways, from a macroeconomic and industry point of view, turned upside down," Mads Nipper, Orsted's chief executive, said in November.
Many officials and analysts say they remain confident that high rates won't stop the growth of renewable energy in the long term. Even with the recent uptick in costs, solar and wind power remain competitive with fossil fuels after more than a decade of sharp price declines.
Forecasters still expect renewable energy to overtake coal as the world's largest source of electricity by the end of the decade. And places like Europe are still eager to shift away from Russian gas and other fossil fuels, if only to lessen their vulnerability to sudden price spikes.
But higher rates are hitting renewables particularly hard in the developing world, with potentially long-lasting consequences for the climate.
In many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and Southeast Asia, the cost of capital for a typical utility-scale solar project can be two to three times as high as it is in the United States or China, according to data from the United Nations. Lenders often demand a premium for what they see as riskier investments.
Higher global interest rates compound that risk problem.
"It's making a lot of renewable energy projects less bankable and have lower return on investment, and therefore less investment appetite from investors, because they know that the return on investment is shrinking," said Jessica Obeid, head of energy transition at SRMG Think Research and Advisory, a consulting firm that issued a study on Monday at COP28 detailing the challenges of financing climate spending in the Middle East.
When central banks in wealthy nations, like the Federal Reserve, raise rates, one side effect is that investment dollars are pulled out of developing countries. High rates make it more attractive to invest in things with low perceived risk, like U.S. Treasury bonds. That outward flow of investment has the effect of making a poor nation's currency less valuable.
At the summit in Dubai, many leaders are hoping delegates will adopt a goal of tripling the amount of renewable power such as wind and solar installed around the world by 2030. But the surge in financing costs makes that goal tougher to achieve, said Sumant Sinha, chief executive of ReNew Energy, the largest renewable energy developer in India.
"The need for renewable energy is going up, the targets are going up, but the ability to deliver is going down," Mr. Sinha said.
Officials from the I.M.F., other development agencies and some wealthy nations have announced a variety of new efforts in recent days to help speed the flow of investment dollars to renewables in Africa and other nations.
The World Trade Organization has pushed for corporate and government leaders to do more to finish unclogging the supply chains that were a major source of pandemic inflation that spurred the rate-raising cycle in the first place.
In an interview on Monday, the organization's director, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, said that continued progress on supply chains would relieve pressure on central banks and help to eventually bring down rates, easing the strains on renewables in Africa and elsewhere.
"Interest rates are high but ultimately, as an economist, I think we have to bear with that for a little while longer to see inflation come down," she said. "You need central banks to do the initial job. Then you need trade to keep it where it is affordable for everybody, inflation down. So, they go hand in hand."
#211
Not long ago, two factories operated in Colorado by Vestas Wind Systems, the world's leading turbine maker, were barely functioning. They had "next to no orders," said the company's chief executive, Henrik Andersen.
Now, flush with the stimulus for renewable energy from the Biden administration's Inflation Reduction Act, Vestas is "running two shifts in the factories again," and struggling to train people fast enough to staff them, Mr. Andersen said.
Despite this burst of activity, the wind industry overall still faces numerous challenges, including soaring costs. And after Donald J. Trump's presidential victory, the critical question is whether the recent recovery will prove fleeting.
In recent decades, renewable industries like wind have seen sharp swings. The early 2020s were brutal for companies like Vestas, which took a battering as the pandemic played havoc with their suppliers and inflation left them stuck with billions of dollars of unprofitable contracts.
By raising prices and slowing the costly introduction of ever-larger turbines, companies have recovered financial health, although profits are still thin for an industry that needs to keep investing in new plants and technology to maintain the double-digit growth of recent years.
Vestas, based in Denmark, can be considered emblematic of the wind industry. Last week, it reported a profit of 127 million euros on €5.2 billion in revenue for the third quarter - not big money, but an improvement on the loss of €1.6 billion in 2022. "We have turned the corner on our turbine business," Mr. Andersen said.
Today's environment, though, is one of increased costs and reduced ambitions.
President Biden's goal of having 30 gigawatts of wind power installed in the waters off the United States by the end of the decade now seems unattainable. Soeren Lassen, an offshore wind analyst at Wood Mackenzie, a consulting firm, said around 40 percent of that number - still enough to power millions of homes - was more likely.
The British government's ambition of roughly tripling the nation's already large offshore generating fleet also seems out of reach. "The timeline is just too tight," said Petra Manuel, an analyst at Rystad Energy, a consulting firm.
Even that conservative expectation could prove optimistic, given Mr. Trump's skepticism about green energy and, in particular, about offshore wind. Largely through delays in permitting, the first Trump administration hobbled what was a fledgling offshore wind industry.
The tariffs the president-elect threatens to impose on imported goods might also hit European manufacturers like Vestas. Not only is Europe at risk for tariffs, but turbine makers often rely heavily on parts from India and China, said Endri Lico, a Wood Mackenzie analyst.
Mr. Andersen said Vestas had become adept at minimizing the impact of tariffs and other disruptions in recent years.
The largest challenges facing wind, especially the offshore segment, is not what Mr. Trump may do, Mr. Lassen said, but costs, which have jumped in the United States and Europe, making wind projects more difficult to build and possibly raising electricity prices for consumers.
Bernstein, a Wall Street research firm, estimates that the price of land-based wind turbines, which sell for millions of dollars each, has increased 40 percent since 2021, while the cost of building wind farms off the United States has risen by a third, a big number for projects that cost billions.
Solar power, the other main renewable technology, does not appear to be facing the same bottlenecks that have affected wind. Solar, which is continuing to get cheaper and is used more widely around the world, is on track to reach 593 gigawatts of capacity by the end of this year, surpassing industry estimates, according to a report from Ember, a research firm.
In Northern Europe, offshore wind is a more established industry, but transferring it to the United States has proved more difficult than expected. Orsted, a Danish offshore wind giant, faced ballooning costs on some of its American projects last year - especially those off New Jersey - pushing it to sell off holdings, including stakes in four British offshore wind farms.
The latest company to stumble is GE Vernova, whose giant offshore turbine, which looked to be a pioneering development, has turned into an albatross. The company recently took a $700 million charge for losses after a turbine blade broke at Vineyard Wind, a wind farm under construction off Massachusetts, and blade problems cropped up at another project off Britain.
GE Vernova recently laid off a group of managers and suspended workers at the factory that made the blades at its plant in Gaspé, Quebec, according to the CSN union, which represents employees there. GE Vernova said the company was "taking corrective actions at our blade facility."
Scott L. Strazik, the company's chief executive, said recently that it did not foresee entering into further offshore contracts "without substantially different industry economics."
His reluctance makes sense given that GE Vernova already has $3 billion in orders that he has characterized as loss making. But it will not help the drive to build cleaner power generation. The market needs these top suppliers to "expand capacity," Mr. Manuel said. "But now they are actually backing out."
#212
World leaders from more than 100 countries will gather next week at the United Nations climate conference in Baku, Azerbaijan, to discuss the threats of a rapidly warming world.
But the main topic of conversation is likely to be President-elect Donald Trump.
During his first term, Trump withdrew the United States from the Paris climate accord, promoted the expansion of fossil fuels and renounced American leadership on environmental issues.
Over the past four years, the Biden administration reversed course, rejoined the Paris accord, invested heavily in renewable energy and looked for ways to limit oil and gas production.
Now, whiplash. At the end of what will probably be the hottest year in recorded history, with extreme weather driven by climate change wreaking havoc around the globe, the world is confronting a second Trump term.
On the campaign trail, Trump continued to call climate change a hoax, said he would pull out of the Paris accord again, pledged to expand oil and gas production and roll back pollution controls, and threatened to eliminate federal incentives that promote renewable energy and electric vehicles.
All of this may make it less likely for other countries to spend money and political capital combating climate change.
"What I hope it does not do is create a sense of fear and therefore paralysis," said Jacqueline Novogratz, chief executive of Acumen, an impact investing fund that works on climate issues. "What I hope it does do is enable everyone to recognize that this work is for all of us. You're already seeing conversations around the world about our responsibilities, and our need to partner."
How the world responds
World leaders have been girding for the return of Trump for months now, and many have pledged to keep working to reduce carbon dioxide and methane emissions even without U.S. leadership.
"What we have now is actually unstoppable," Christiana Figueres, who led the U.N. climate change body, told my colleague Lisa Friedman in September. "The direction is unstoppable. What we're all focused on is scale and speed, but not direction."
Yesterday, Ajay Banga, the president of the World Bank, told me that in the wake of Trump's victory, making strides in the rest of the world will be more important than ever.
"It was never an America-only game," he said. "It was always a developed world and middle-income country game."
But as Somini Sengupta wrote, the election of Trump is a setback to the world's ability to limit global warming, and a signal to other countries that the U.S. is dismissive of the economic opportunities of cleaner technologies.
"The U.S. has barely got on the court," Li Shuo, a China specialist with the Asia Society Policy Institute, told Sengupta. "With Trump, it will soon leave the stadium."
As for China, many now see an opening for that country to step up and assume leadership of international efforts to address climate change.
And even as other countries brace for what's to come, many world leaders who are outspoken on climate efforts are welcoming Trump back to the Oval Office.
"Barbados stands ready to work together to build an even stronger relationship and stronger region in this new chapter," said Mia Mottley, the prime minister of Barbados.
THE CLIMATE FIX
A big geothermal project moves forward
The problem: Decarbonizing the grid means moving away from fossil fuels, which currently make up 60 percent of utility-scale electricity generation in the United States.
The fix: Enhanced geothermal systems (E.G.S.) are an extension of traditional geothermal energy that use hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to make cracks in underground rock to access the Earth's heat as an energy source. Using fracking techniques adapted from the oil and gas industry allows E.G.S. to tap geothermal energy in a wider range of locations.
"They avoid a lot of the drilling problems, and they make their own fractures the way they want them, and it gives them a much more predictable outcome," said Roland Horne, an earth sciences professor at Stanford University.
Unlike wind and solar energy, geothermal systems can provide power 24 hours a day.
Last month, the Bureau of Land Management approved a plan for an advanced geothermal project in Beaver County, Utah, by Fervo Energy, one of the more well-known startups deploying this technology. (We last wrote about Fervo in 2023.)
The company's approach is unique: After drilling thousands of feet deep underground, it then drills horizontally to access additional rock.
Fervo's Utah plan aims to supply as much as two gigawatts' worth of power starting in 2026, which is enough to power more than two million homes if fully developed. The company recently started constructing the power plant infrastructure it will need to supply energy to customers, the company's CEO, Tim Latimer, said.
The obstacles: One longtime concern with geothermal energy is its potential to cause earthquakes, what scientists refer to as "induced seismicity." Some of those earthquakes are so minor that they aren't felt by humans aboveground, but in certain cases geothermal projects have caused significant damage. Stanford's Horne says earthquakes remains "the big kind of bugaboo for E.G.S."
Latimer said that Fervo is monitoring seismic activity deep underground around its operations. If that activity surpasses certain thresholds, the company can halt operations, he said.
Another big obstacle these projects face is access to the electrical grid. In Utah, Fervo chose a location where it will have access to existing transmission lines, Latimer said.
"Probably the thing that's going to limit our ambitious growth plans the most is going to be access to transmission," he said.
Geothermal can also be costly. Latimer said Fervo has lowered both drilling costs and the time it takes to drill for a geothermal project by 70 percent.
Environmentalists, the federal government and others have also expressed concerns about geothermal projects negatively affecting air quality, water resources and hot springs.
What's next: Fervo is planning for the second phase of its Utah project to be running by 2028. Geothermal energy last year only accounted for 0.4 percent of the country's electricity, but Latimer said he hoped the industry would make up close to 1 percent of the country's electricity generation by 2030. - Allison Prang
2024 temperatures are on track for a record high, researchers find
This year will almost certainly be the hottest year on record, beating the high set in 2023, researchers announced on Wednesday.
The assessment, by the Copernicus Climate Change Service, the European Union agency that monitors global warming, also forecast that 2024 would be the first calendar year in which global temperatures consistently rose 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels.
That's the temperature threshold that countries agreed, in the Paris Agreement, that the planet should avoid crossing. Beyond that amount of warming, scientists say, the Earth will face irreversible damage. - Austyn Gaffney
#213
Some companies are leaving the state or reducing their presence there after California greatly reduced incentives for homeowners to install rooftop solar panels.
California has long championed renewable energy, but a change in the state's policies last year has led to a sharp decline in the installation of residential rooftop solar in the state.
Thousands of companies - including installers, manufacturers and distributors - are reeling from the new policy, which took effect in April and greatly reduced incentives that had encouraged homeowners to install solar panels. Since the change, sales of rooftop solar installations in California dropped as much as 85 percent in some months of 2023 from a year earlier, according to a report by Ohm Analytics, a research firm that tracks the solar marketplace. Industry groups project that installations in the state will drop more than 40 percent this year and continue to decline through 2028.
"The solar installations are off a ton," said Michael Wara, a senior research scholar at Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment. "What's happening right now is a painful adjustment process."
Construct Sun, a solar installation company that is based in Reno, Nev., stopped doing business in California after its sales dried up four months after the policy began; executives said the company was now focusing its efforts on Florida, North Carolina and Ohio.
"I had a very dismal pipeline and had to make the decision to shut down in California," Thomas Devine, executive vice president of operations for Construct Sun, said. He added that the state's rooftop policies undercut its goal to effectively eliminate greenhouse gas emissions by 2045. "These competing policies are crazy," he said.
State officials chafe at the idea that California is undercutting renewable energy and have defended the policy change, which lowered the value of the credits homeowners with new installations receive for the power they send to the grid by 75 percent. They have argued that the old rules, which still apply to systems installed before April, offered too generous a subsidy, helping mostly affluent homeowners. As a result, lower-income people who could not afford panels were effectively left bearing more of the cost of maintaining the state's electricity system.
"California has done more for the solar industry than any other state in the nation by providing billions in rebates and incentives since 2006," the state's Public Utilities Commission, which oversees rooftop solar and investor-owned utilities, said in a statement.
States across the country have wrestled with how to compensate consumers for the electricity their rooftop solar systems send to the grid. And officials have often looked to California for guidance.
Many states, including California before it changed its policy, generally allow homeowners to receive credits that are roughly equivalent to the retail electricity rate for the energy their systems send to the grid. This has never sat well with most utility companies, who contend that offering homeowners a one-for-one credit for solar energy overstates the value of that electricity. Utilities say they could buy electricity for a lot less on the wholesale market or by producing it themselves.
On the whole, renewable energy is growing and now provides more than a fifth of the nation's electricity. In California, renewable sources produce more than a third of electricity.
But growth of carbon-free sources has become bumpy as regulators, utilities, consumers and renewable energy companies fight over its financial benefits. They are also trying to figure out ways to not just add equipment that can generate electricity but also batteries that can store it because solar and wind energy are intermittent.
California officials note that even as they reduced the compensation for rooftop solar energy they have offered residents more incentives to install batteries. Batteries, they say, can help provide energy to the grid when it is most needed, not just in the middle of the day when California typically has a surplus. The devices can also provide power during blackouts.
"Today, California has a tremendous need for more energy storage and our state must transition incentives toward storage technologies to support reliability, enable polluting gas facilities to be retired and relieve pressure on electricity rates," said David Hochschild, chair of the California Energy Commission, which broadly oversees the energy industry.
Since regulators put in effect the new rooftop solar policy, the percentage of consumers buying solar panels with a battery increased to as much as 50 percent, from as little as 5 percent before the changes.
But batteries are expensive, especially at a time of high interest rates. Without federal tax incentives, a solar and battery system costs $33,700 on average, compared with $22,700 for systems that do not include batteries, according to EnergySage, a shopping site that compares rooftop solar panels.
Installers and homeowners say investing in rooftop solar systems is difficult to justify financially without access to adequate electricity credits. California's decision to reduce the incentive has increased the amount of time it takes for a solar system to pay for itself to at least eight years, up from about five.
The nation's largest residential solar company, Sunrun, which is based in San Francisco, cut about 2,000 jobs after California regulators reduced the rooftop incentives.
"It's very unfortunate from the perspective that it is at a time when the planet's on fire," said Mary Powell, Sunrun's chief executive. But she added that because of her company's size and nationwide operations, it has been able to absorb much of the impact.
Other businesses face bigger challenges.
About four years ago, Amy Atchley started Amy's Roofing and Solar. Before California changed its policy, solar power sales drove more than 55 percent of her business, which she runs with her husband, Brian, in Petaluma, north of San Francisco. Since the policy went into effect, solar sales fell to 45 percent. To reduce costs, Ms. Atchley said she typically recommended that her customers install solar panels when they were also replacing their roofs.
"California should be doing everything in our power to become a clean energy state," Ms. Atchley said. "But the momentum has been halted."
Offering energy credits to homeowners with rooftop solar was a central component of legislation, approved when Arnold Schwarzenegger was governor, that aimed to add one million solar roofs, reduce electric bills and fight climate change. The state met the roof goal in 2019 and now has panels on 1.8 million rooftops.
Some solar experts claim that the new California policy is flawed because it does not adequately take into account the environmental value rooftop solar panels provide.
"You are valuing the solar power the same as fossil fuel power, so that doesn't make sense," said Yogi Goswami, an engineering professor and director of the Clean Energy Research Center at the University of South Florida. "We should have given some value to the environmental factor."
By cutting the incentive at a time when the world needs more clean energy, "they're making it that much more difficult," he added.
Nationally, rooftop solar grew an estimated 13 percent last year, but this year it could decline by 11.5 percent, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association, which attributes the drop primarily to California's policy change.
Pacific Gas & Electric, California's largest utility, said that rooftop solar connections to its system reached a record high last year, up 20 percent from 2022. That may have been because many homeowners rushed to install solar panels before the new policy took effect in April.
"At PG&E, we recognize the significant role rooftop solar plays in California's clean energy future," Carla Peterman, PG&E's executive vice president for corporate affairs and a former state utility regulator, said in a statement. "We're proud to have interconnected over 750,000 private solar customers, more than any other U.S. utility."
Rooftop solar proponents have asked the courts to intervene, and others have lobbied regulators and state lawmakers to reverse course or risk losing more jobs and companies.
"The question is, who survives this?" said Bernadette Del Chiaro, executive director of the California Solar and Storage Association. "How many businesses make it through this transition?"
Some energy experts said that rooftop solar could regain some of its financial appeal as California raises electricity rates, which are already among the highest in the country. The utilities commission recently approved higher rates for customers of the investor-owned utilities, Pacific Gas & Electric, Southern California Edison and San Diego Gas & Electric.
Customers of PG&E will soon pay about 45 cents per kilowatt-hour, up from about 35 cents. That works out to about $250 a month for 571 kilowatt-hours, the average usage for homes in California. By comparison, the national average retail electricity rate was 16.2 cents in October.
More Californians might install solar panels and batteries not to earn credits for the excess power the panels produce but simply to reduce their dependence on utilities. But that option would mostly be an advantage that affluent homeowners are able to take rather than those with limited means, Mr. Wara of Stanford said. He added: "There is a massive affordability challenge for California electricity."
#214
BP's share price fell more than 3 percent on Tuesday after the energy giant reported its lowest quarterly earnings in almost four years and suggested it might change its generous share buyback policy.
The falling profit comes as producers adjust to turbulence in the oil market caused by oversupply and falling demand in China, as well as rising tensions in the Middle East.
For the third quarter, BP's adjusted earnings were $2.3 billion, down from $2.8 billion in the second quarter and $3.3 billion in the period a year earlier. Though still substantial, profit fell partly because of lower oil prices. BP, which is based in London, also said trading in oil, usually a strength at the company, was "weak" during the quarter.
Murray Auchincloss, who took over as chief executive a year ago after his predecessor, Bernard Looney, left over personal relationships with employees, has struggled to bolster the company's share price, which has fallen about 26 percent over the past year.
Mr. Auchincloss is taking a more hard-nosed, profit-oriented approach than Mr. Looney, who aimed to gradually reduce oil and gas production, usually the big money earners at a company like BP, and rapidly build up renewable energy businesses like offshore wind.
"We're trying to grow cash flow for the corporation through the decade, that is the principal aim we have, " he said in an interview on Tuesday. In a statement, Mr. Auchincloss said BP saw "the potential to grow" in oil and gas through the decade.
BP is moving ahead with a large oil project in the Gulf of Mexico called Kaskida, and it is considering adding to its positions in Iraq and Azerbaijan, two large petroleum producing nations where it is already a big player.
Mr. Auchincloss also said that BP would continue to invest in lower emissions businesses because "our customers want lower carbon energy over time." But he signaled that BP would mainly focus on areas like electric vehicle charging and biofuels, where he thinks the company could make the highest profits.
He added that BP would continue to participate selectively in businesses like offshore wind, where it has taken write-offs, but through partnerships or financial structures that reduced capital needs. BP also says it is selling a large portfolio of land-based wind farms in the United States.
BP's earnings, while down, actually topped analysts' forecasts. Investors may be more concerned that the company will pare back the generous stock buybacks that have become commonplace at large energy firms and in some cases look unsustainable with oil prices stuck at relatively modest levels. A cut to buybacks "looks inevitable for 2025," Alastair Syme, an analyst at Citigroup, wrote in a note to clients on Tuesday.
BP said on Tuesday that it would review "expectations for 2025 buybacks" next year, although it said it would repurchase $1.75 billion in stock after the third quarter and the same amount after the fourth quarter of 2024.
#215
The government of Prime Minister Keir Starmer of Britain finds itself in a quandary. It came to power promising to lead a clean energy boom that it said would revive a stagnant economy and protect consumers from energy price surges that were driving up inflation.
Yet it also seems wary of setting off a collapse of the oil and gas industry in the North Sea that sustains an estimated 120,000 mostly well-paid jobs and produces much of the natural gas that keep British businesses and homes humming.
"While we make that transition, the oil and gas industry will play an important role in the economy for decades to come," Britain's energy minister, Michael Shanks, said this year.
Already there is unease about a sharp slowdown in investment among energy companies and what strikes some as indifference on the part of Britain's new government, led by the Labour Party, to the potential consequences.
Britain has "been a leader in offshore development," said Gregor Scott, managing director of Ocean Installer, which does underwater work. "We won't maintain that forever if there is a dwindling amount of work."
In the coming months, the government will face a tricky balancing act of pursuing its clean energy agenda while supporting an industry that the country still relies on for energy and jobs.
The importance of oil and gas quickly becomes apparent on a visit to Aberdeen, a port city in the northeast corner of Scotland. Powerful, low-slung vessels move in and out of its harbor, carrying food and equipment to the oil platforms in the North Sea. To the northwest, a procession of large helicopters ferries crews to the oil fields and back.
Aberdeen's long, dark winter days and a somewhat remote location have not kept Fennex, a technology company, from recruiting university graduates to use artificial intelligence in order to better manage risk in hazardous offshore oil and gas operations.
"We're passionate about this region and the opportunities it offers," said Nassima Brown, a former drilling engineer who founded the company with her husband, Adrian.
Britain's petroleum production has been falling for around a quarter-century, from the time the country was a substantial producer, pumping nearly three million barrels of oil a day, more than Middle East stalwarts like Iraq and the United Arab Emirates. By 2023, its oil output had diminished to 715,000 barrels a day, according to the Statistical Review of World Energy.
Even with the fall, Britain's output of oil and natural gas, which remains a mainstay for generating electric power, amounted to more than half of domestic consumption, an important consideration at a time of heightened energy concerns since Russia's invasion of Ukraine in 2022.
Depletion of resources has been a crucial factor behind the drop in production, but government policy has also played a role, especially in recent years.
Linda Cook, chief executive of Harbour Energy, Britain's largest petroleum producer, said the differences between Britain and other countries, including Norway, were "pretty stark."
Britain's government, she added, "sends mixed signals to the sector as to whether or not they'd like additional further investment in domestic oil and gas."
Britain has taken steps that weigh on investment. The government responded to the sharp rise in oil and gas prices after Russia's invasion of Ukraine by imposing a so-called windfall tax on energy company profits, a measure it later increased and extended until 2030, even though prices have declined substantially.
Some industry executives were encouraged when the government seemed to heed their pleas to not tighten taxes on oil and gas further in the presentation of its budget this fall. "I think that was a really positive set of discussions over a few months," said Louise Kingham, senior vice president for Europe and head of Britain for BP, the London-based energy company. "We have more work to do," she added.
But they are waiting to see what tax strategy the government will pursue after 2030. The Labour Party is contemplating how to comply with a June court ruling that said the licensing process for new oil and gas projects needed to weigh the effect of their emissions. And it is also pondering how to enact its election campaign promise not to issue any new oil and gas licenses.
Adding to the uncertainty, environmental activists have gone to court to try to block two major new petroleum developments, including one called Jackdaw in the North Sea, where Shell, Europe's largest energy company, has already spent about 750 million pounds.
Oil executives do not seem reassured. Patrick Pouyanné, the chief executive of the French company TotalEnergies, one of the largest producers in British waters, said in October that he had told his North Sea team to halt exploration. "With this political landscape you are not even sure that even if you find something you will be able to, to develop it," he said at an investor conference.
Only three exploration wells have been drilled in the British North Sea this year. In fact, oil producers have stopped most discretionary expenditure in Britain. Capital investment has fallen to $4.8 billion in 2024 from $27 billion in 2014, according to Wood Mackenzie, a consulting firm.
There are quite a few other places in the world that are offering similar or even more interesting geological opportunities with a lot lower political risk," said Graham Kellas, a senior vice president for fiscal research at Wood Mackenzie.
Other signs of companies' reluctance to invest are emerging. A group of oil companies have put the brakes on an estimated $1 billion project called Buchan Horst in the North Sea off Scotland that would have created hundreds of jobs.
"Who wants to take long-term investment decisions where we're not sure whether or not we will be able to meet the environmental requirements, or that the fiscal regime will be suitable?" said David Latin, chairman of Serica Energy, which owns 30 percent of Buchan Horst.
Last Thursday, Shell and Equinor, the Norwegian energy company, said they would combine their British oil and gas operations in what appeared to be an effort to reduce costs. Other large oil companies like Chevron and ExxonMobil have already sharply reduced their British North Sea presence.
Even BP, the London-based giant, has scaled back. "The North Sea is not particularly material to us anymore," said Murray Auchincloss, the company's chief executive, estimating that it brought in 4 percent of overall cash flow.
Paul de Leeuw, director of the Energy Transition Institute at Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen, said that an orderly decline of output would offer a better shot to achieve "a seamless transfer from one industry to another industry." But evidence of the dangers of climate change "put a huge amount of pressure on governments and society to go fast," he said.
To the work force, what the government paints as a bright future in areas like offshore wind and hydrogen looks murky at best.
"Nobody knows what the jobs are going to be," said Kyle Griffiths, a painter on an offshore platform. "Nobody knows what they're going to need yet."
Some businesses are beginning to work in renewable energy areas. For instance, Fennex, the tech company in Aberdeen, is moving into offshore wind. The oil and gas industry is nurturing a "new Aberdeen" of high-tech energy entrepreneurs and workers, said Ms. Brown, the company's co-founder.
Alternative energy technologies, though, are still in relatively early stages, and it is not clear how many people they will employ.
"The scale of renewables isn't quite there to allow it to be an easy and swift transition for that work force," said Sandy Bonner, president of Bilfinger UK, an engineering company, which has around 1,200 people working on North Sea oil platforms. Mr. Bonner noted that some of those installations have crews of up to 200 people, while near-shore wind farms are maintained by no more than 12.
Still, businesses that have been sustained by the oil industry for decades are preparing for what they see as its inevitable fading. The Port of Aberdeen recently completed a new £420 million harbor to attract cruise ships and renewable energy vessels.
In 2023, though, oil and gas vessels docking at the port still brought in more than half of its revenue. Offshore wind vessels accounted for only around 1 percent.
"Oil and gas is not yet in its decline, despite the politicians' best attempts to kill us off," joked Kieran Morton, the port's business development manager.
#216
The faithful gathered in an imposing modernist building, thousands of men in skullcaps and women in veils sitting shoulder to shoulder. Their leader took to his perch and delivered a stark warning.
"Our fatal shortcomings as human beings have been that we treat the earth as just an object," Grand Imam Nasaruddin Umar said. "The greedier we are toward nature, the sooner doomsday will arrive."
Then he prescribed the cure as laid out by their faith, which guides almost a quarter of humanity. Like fasting during Ramadan, it is every Muslim's Fard al-Ayn, or obligation, to be a guardian of the earth. Like giving alms, his congregants should give waqf, a kind of religious donation, to renewable energy. Like daily prayers, planting trees should be a habit.
The environment is a central theme in the sermons of Mr. Nasaruddin, the influential head of the Istiqlal Mosque in Jakarta, Indonesia, who has tried to lead by example. Dismayed by the trash sullying the river that the mosque sits on, he ordered a cleanup. Shocked by astronomical utility bills, he retrofitted Southeast Asia's largest mosque with solar panels, slow-flow faucets and a water recycling system - changes that helped make it the first place of worship to win a green building accolade from the World Bank.
The Grand Imam says he is simply following the Prophet Muhammad's instructions that Muslims should care about nature.
He is not alone in this country of more than 200 million people, the majority of them Muslims, in trying to kindle an environmental awakening through Islam. Top clergy have issued fatwas, or edicts, on how to rein in climate change. Neighborhood activists are beseeching friends, family and neighbors that environmentalism is embedded in the Quran.
"As the country with the largest number of Muslim people in the world, we have to set a good example for Muslim society," Grand Imam Nasaruddin said in an interview.
The map locates the city of Jakarta, with the Istiqlal Mosque, and the city of Yogyakarta, with the Al-Muharram Mosque, on the island of Java, in Indonesia. It also locates Mount Lemongan, in the province of East Java.
While other Muslim nations also have strains of this "Green Islam" movement, Indonesia could be a guide for the rest of the world if it can transform itself. The world's biggest exporter of coal, it is one of the top global emitters of greenhouse gases. Thousands of hectares of its rainforests have been cleared to produce palm oil or dig for minerals. Wildfires and flooding have become more intense, byproducts of the extreme weather propelled by higher temperatures.
Lasting change is a tall order.
Its vast reserves of nickel, which is used in electric car batteries, are a pathway to a cleaner future. But processing nickel requires burning fossil fuels. The president-elect, Prabowo Subianto, has campaigned to expand production of biofuels that could lead to deforestation. With the capital, Jakarta, sinking into the sea, the departing president, Joko Widodo, is building a new capital that is billed as a green metropolis powered by renewable energy. But to do this, he has cleared forests.
Some clerics see environmentalism as peripheral to religion. And surveys suggest there is a widespread belief among Indonesians that climate change is not caused by human activity.
But educating 200 million Muslims, the proponents of the Green Islam movement say, can drive the change.
"People will not listen to laws, they don't care," said Hayu Prabowo, the head of environmental protection at the Indonesian Ulema Council, the nation's highest Islamic authority. "They listen to religious leaders because their religious leaders say you can escape worldly laws, but you cannot escape God's laws."
The fatwas issued by the council are not legally binding, but he said they have had a notable effect. He pointed to studies that found that people living in areas with rich forests and peatlands are now more aware that it is wrong to clear these lands because of the fatwas declaring these activities as haram, or forbidden.
Clerics have not always been on board with the movement. Two decades ago, a regional branch of the Ulema Council issued a fatwa against Aak Abdullah al-Kudus, an environmentalist in East Java Province who tried to combine a tree-planting campaign with the celebration of the Prophet Muhammad's birthday. He also received death threats.
But support for Mr. Aak grew over time, and he went on to start the Green Army, a group of tree-planting volunteers working to reforest Mount Lemongan, a small volcano where 2,000 hectares of protected forest had been cut down. Today it is covered with verdant bamboo and fruit trees.
"Our task is to be khalifahs, the guardians, of the earth," Mr. Aak said. "That is the mission of Islam."
Elok Faiqotul Mutia was inspired by the same sentiment. When she was 6 and growing up in a city in central Java, her father took her along to teak forests where she watched trees being cut down for her family's furniture business. She said she wanted to "replace my father's sins to the earth."
One of her first jobs was a researcher for Greenpeace. She later founded Enter Nusantara, an organization that aims to educate youth on climate change.
Ms. Mutia said she believed Islam could offer Indonesians a gentler message about environmental conservation, pointing to a survey that found that Indonesian Muslims heed religious leaders more than scientists, the media and the president.
"Environmental activism always uses negative terms like 'Phase out coal, reject coal power plants!'" Ms. Mutia said. "We want to show that in Islam, we already have values that support environmental values."
Last June, her group raised more than $5,300 so that a small mosque in the city of Yogyakarta could install solar panels. More than 5,500 people donated funds, which went to the Al-Muharram Mosque, where congregants often sat in darkness because of chronic power shortages.
The new panels helped slash the mosque's monthly power bill 75 percent to $1, its leader, Ananto Isworo, said. Congregants were already using harvested rainwater to cleanse themselves.
Mr. Ananto said many of his peers call him the "crazy ustadz," or the "crazy Muslim teacher," saying preaching about the environment has nothing to do with religion. He counters by saying there are roughly 700 verses in the Quran and dozens of hadiths, or sayings, by the Prophet Muhammad that speak about the environment. He cites Prophet Muhammad's dictum: "God is kind and likes kindness, God is clean and likes cleanliness."
"This is an order to preserve the environment by cleaning it," Mr. Ananto said.
The Istiqlal Mosque is a testament to what can be achieved. Mr. Nasaruddin said installing 500 solar panels has lowered the mosque's power bill by 25 percent. With slow-flow faucets and a water recycling system, worshipers use far less water to cleanse themselves before prayers.
Solar panels have helped cut Istiqlal Mosque's power bills by 25 percent.
It was the first place of worship in the world to be awarded a green building certificate by the World Bank's International Finance Corporation. The Grand Imam said that he wants to help transform 70 percent of Indonesia's 800,000 mosques into "eco-masjids," or ecological mosques.
The Green Islam movement is also getting a push from Nahdlatul Ulama and Muhammadiyah, the country's largest Muslim grassroots organizations, which fund schools, hospitals and social services. Nahdlatul Ulama has recruited Mr. Aak, the environmental activist, for its "spiritual ecology" program that uses Islamic teachings to drive environmental conservation.
One effort involves helping Islamic schools upgrade their waste management. Girls are encouraged to use reusable tampons, and the schools have a system that allows students to turn waste into things like organic fertilizer.
On a recent Tuesday, Mr. Aak led more than 50 sixth graders up a small hill on a Green Army mission. Many of the students were panting and sweating as they carried backpacks with plants poking out of them.
"Let's pray to Allah and plant more often, because the Prophet Muhammad once said that even if you know that the end of the world is tomorrow and there are still seeds in the ground, he ordered: 'Plant them,'" Mr. Aak said to them.
Stopping near the top of the hill, Mr. Aak knelt down to plant a banyan sapling. A breeze blew through, rustling the leaves of the nearby trees.
#217
Money is the mother's milk of politics, but the outcome of elections also determines where it flows - and last month's was especially crucial for the energy industry.
Clean investment - including renewable energy as well as the manufacturing of electric vehicles, batteries and solar panels - has boomed since the passage of the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, championed by President Biden. In the third quarter of 2024, it reached a record $71 billion, according to a tracker maintained by the Rhodium Group, an energy-focused research firm, and M.I.T.
The big question looming now on Wall Street: Will President-elect Donald J. Trump, who called Mr. Biden's policies the "green new scam" during the campaign, pull back enough of those subsidies and regulations to meaningfully change the economics of investing in decarbonization?
Market reactions right after the election seemed clear. Clean energy stocks dropped sharply, while shares of oil companies bounced, indicating a divergent view of how the two sectors will fare in the coming years.
Near the top of Mr. Trump's agenda next year is extending his 2017 tax cuts. He will most likely need to reduce spending elsewhere to do that. Clean energy tax credits - worth about $350 billion over just the next three years, according to the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation - would be a tempting target. The more those subsidies are pared, the more projects would no longer make financial sense.
Since the election, renewable energy backers have drawn some hope from the knowledge that funding leveraged by the 2022 law has disproportionately flowed toward Republican states, potentially shielding it from cuts. Energy demand has also started rising for the first time in a generation with the growth of electric vehicles, heat pumps, new factories and artificial intelligence, bolstering the case for an expansive approach to energy sources. And solar energy, in particular, is now one of the cheapest forms of power available.
"Renewable energy has a certain bipartisan support," said Nils Rode, the chief investment officer of Schroders Capital, a London-based firm that manages $97 billion, including wind farms in the United States. "Even though there might be risks, we don't believe it will lead to major changes."

Subsidies aren't the only policy with the potential to affect the flow of money, however. Mr. Trump and his team have made it clear they wish to ease the path of fossil fuel projects in ways that could make them more attractive to investors.
His candidate for interior secretary, Doug Burgum, has promised to open up more federal lands to oil and gas drilling. Chris Wright, the fracking company chief executive whom Mr. Trump picked to lead the Energy Department, could redirect the agency's vast research agenda and loan programs away from low-carbon electricity. At the Environmental Protection Agency, the president-elect intends to nominate Lee Zeldin, who has discussed rolling back rules on power plant emissions, which would weaken incentives for utilities to shift to cleaner sources of electricity.
All of those actions would increase the return on fossil fuel investments relative to renewable ones.
"The fundamental thing that changes is just the economics," said Ben King, an associate director of the climate and energy practice at the Rhodium Group, who has counted $435 billion in renewable energy projects that have been announced but not yet started. "Even today, wind, solar and batteries are competing with natural gas, on the margins. A slowdown in deployment of those technologies just leaves more room for gas on the grid."
In addition, Mr. Trump's promise to impose big new tariffs would hit the components needed to build solar fields, wind farms, car batteries and long-duration energy storage systems. And a decrease in the corporate tax rate could weaken the market for tradable tax credits that renewable energy developers use to take advantage of many of the Inflation Reduction Act's subsidies that must be claimed against taxable income.
The prospect of such changes has caused some banks and investors to pause new renewable energy deals until the landscape in Washington becomes more clear. Financial firms are also making sure that new contracts include provisions that protect them against policy changes that could lower their returns.
"They will not invest when it's unclear what the economics of the projects are, unless you've adjusted the pricing for the worst case and the deal still works," said Keith Martin, a lawyer with Norton Rose Fulbright who has long handled complex financing for banks investing in renewable energy projects.
But some of Mr. Trump's proposals and ideas could cut in opposing and unexpected directions. For example, encouraging the export of natural gas would tend to raise its price domestically and make the building of new U.S. gas power plants less appealing to investors, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Speeding up permitting of new electricity transmission could help some renewable energy projects. Mining for the minerals used in battery production might become easier, too.
Also, losing some of Mr. Biden's climate rules may not make that much of a difference. The Securities and Exchange Commission's recent rule requiring public companies to disclose certain carbon emissions is tied up in court, and the new administration may simply drop it - but many companies already have to do similar reporting to comply with European Union regulations. And Europe is phasing in a "border adjustment mechanism," or a kind of tariff for goods produced using a lot of carbon.
"They're not going to be able to hide from it if they want to keep doing business in Europe," said Jason Britton, president of Reflection Asset Management, a socially responsible investment consulting firm.
Europe isn't just a substitute regulator, however. It's also a competitor for young companies looking for the most friendly place to scale up operations, offering research assistance and other incentives.
Dan Goldman is the managing partner of Clean Energy Ventures, an early-stage venture capital firm with portfolio companies that have frequently been supported by federal loans and grants. If those funds are choked off, he said, they could look elsewhere.
"We want our companies to ultimately be global," Mr. Goldman said. "That was certainly true before the election, and, if anything, now we would say it's important to accelerate those initiatives."
One thing that is clear: Financial firms will most likely stop trumpeting their investments as being about "climate" or "sustainability" or "E.S.G." - which stands for environmental, social and governance - a trend that has been underway since Republican state officials started targeting asset managers like BlackRock that professed such ideals.
Instead, the monikers have changed to words like "transition finance," "resilience" and even "critical technology." The argument for supporting low-carbon electricity will shift even more toward "energy security" and staying ahead of companies based in China.
Banks and asset managers had already been leaving international alliances set up in recent years to collectively advance commitments to divest from fossil fuels and fund decarbonization. But it doesn't appear that those alliances were propelling institutions to do much that they weren't already planning. Some experts think the climate movement is better off without them.
"They have been talking out of both sides of their mouths for the past five years, saying, 'We're partners in financing the energy transition,' and then saying, 'No, we're agnostic,'" said Lisa Sachs, director of the Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment. "They created a perception that something useful was happening when nothing useful was happening."
Ultimately, macroeconomic factors may matter more than policy. Oil and gas companies won't pump more unless global prices are high enough to justify doing so. And renewable energy investment rose even under the last Trump administration, largely because interest rates were so low that investors could make money even without deep subsidies.
That's why the news last week that the Federal Reserve was not expecting to cut interest rates as much as it had planned to in 2025 was bad news for the sector. If the cost of capital remains high, new tariffs would increase the cost of construction. And if the energy law is entirely repealed, the future for clean energy investment will look much dimmer.
"That, I think, is a tough situation," said Quinn Pasloske, a principal with Greenbacker, a fund manager focused on clean energy infrastructure. "If any one of those three legs of the stool doesn't fall, you're in a fine spot because the fundamentals are still there."
#218
Glaciers are shrinking, coral reefs are in crisis and last year was the hottest on record. Atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, have passed a dangerous new threshold as people continue to burn fossil fuels. Is anyplace making progress on climate change?
The short answer is: It's complicated, but yes.
In South America, one country has pivoted in less than a decade to generating almost all its electricity from a diverse mix of renewables. In China, an electric car that costs just $5,000 is suddenly one of the biggest sellers. Paris is transforming itself into a city of bikes.
Steps like these, taken individually, aren't enough to avoid the most serious consequences of climate change - worsening droughts, intensified storms and human suffering. Still, they show how some places are pulling off significant local changes very quickly.
Globally, "we're not moving as fast as we need to," said Thomas Spencer, an analyst at the International Energy Agency. "But we definitely have the tools to go much faster."
"Climate solutions actually do exist. They're here now," said Jonathan Foley, the executive director of Project Drawdown, a nonprofit organization focused on climate action.
To mark Earth Day (and to try to reach young, environmentally-minded voters) President Biden is promoting a new national program to train and employ people in climate-related jobs, and reminding voters of the clean-energy investments underway following the Inflation Reduction Act.
These programs are just getting started, but around the world, there are places where climate solutions have become ubiquitous parts of everyday life.
Uruguay's energy revolution
Uruguay, a nation of 3.4 million people wedged between Argentina and Brazil, generates nearly all its electricity from renewable sources. In 2008, the government set a goal of transforming the electric grid, which had come to depend on imported oil.
The country had a lot of hydropower, but years of drought in the 1990s and 2000s slashed the dams' output. Uruguay was forced to import oil instead, at volatile prices, and faced shortages and blackouts. Officials noted the increasing cost competitiveness of renewables, especially wind, and set out to build a local wind industry nearly from scratch.
Between 2013 and 2018, wind generation grew sharply from almost nothing to about a quarter of Uruguay's electricity mix. By the end of 2022, the most recent year data is available, Uruguay generated more than 90 percent of its power from renewables, with wind and solar growing even as hydropower declined.
This small nation represents one especially fast example of the massive growth of renewable energy globally.
Electricity and heat together are the biggest source of humans' greenhouse gas emissions. But in "many, many countries now," renewables are growing faster than electricity demand and displacing fossil fuels from the power sector, said Bill Hare, C.E.O. and senior scientist at Climate Analytics, an international climate science and policy organization. "That has got the most potential in the next five years to get us onto a one and a half degree pathway and anything close to it."
Transportation is the second biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions. Electric car sales have grown exponentially over the past decade, and China is by far the largest market for these vehicles. About 7.3 million battery electric vehicles were sold around the world in 2022, according to the International Energy Agency. More than half of these cars, about 4.4 million, were sold in China.
Historically, megacities like Shanghai have driven this trend. But in recent years China's smaller cities have started taking up a larger share of the market. In 2022, the two cities where electric vehicles made up the largest percentage of total new car registrations were Sanya, a city of beach resorts on Hainan Island, and Liuzhou, an industrial hub in southern China. Battery electric vehicles accounted for about 40 percent of new vehicles registrations in both cities, far above the national average of 19 percent, according to a recent report by the International Council on Clean Transportation.
Electric vehicles' success in China has hinged partially on policy, and partially on sheer convenience and affordability. The most popular electric car in China is currently the Hongguang Mini, a tiny two-door model that costs about $5,000. It's manufactured by the three-way international joint venture SAIC-GM-Wuling, in the factories of Liuzhou.
Paris, city of bikes
Some cities are trying not just to electrify cars, but to replace as many of them as possible with cleaner forms of transportation, like bicycles. In 2021, officials in Paris announced a plan to make their city "100 percent cycle-friendly" in the next five years.
Paris was already on a yearslong journey to do away with cars in the city center, or at least to reduce their numbers. Between 2001 and 2018, the number of car trips taken in Paris fell by 60 percent. Over that same period, public transit trips increased by 40 percent and bicycle trips by 20 percent.
Cycling has boomed even more in recent years, spurred in part by new bike lanes set up during the coronavirus pandemic, nicknamed "coronapistes," or "corona lanes." The percentage of trips taken by bicycle within Paris more than doubled between 2020 and 2024, from 5 to 11 percent, according to the Paris Region Institute, an urban planning agency that works for cities around Europe.
Paris currently has more than 1,000 kilometers of bike lanes, and will get 180 more under the current plan, along with tens of thousands of bicycle parking spots and new traffic light patterns that prioritize cyclists and public transit.
#219
Amazon announced on Wednesday that effectively all of the electricity its operations used last year came from sources that did not produce greenhouse gas emissions. But some experts have criticized the method the company uses to make that determination as being too lenient.
In its announcement, Amazon said it had reached its goal of 100 percent clean energy seven years ahead of schedule. The company said it invested billions of dollars in more than 500 solar and wind projects to achieve its target. The energy generated by those projects is equivalent to the electricity consumed by the company's data centers, corporate buildings, grocery stores and fulfillment centers in 27 countries.
But because the solar and wind farms do not all directly power Amazon's operations - most of that energy is sent to electricity grids that serve many businesses and homes - some critics say that the company's calculations can create a misleading impression of its effect on the climate.
The clean energy projects Amazon has invested in can produce enough electricity to power the equivalent of 7.6 million U.S. homes, the company said. Amazon aims to reach net-zero carbon emissions from all of its operations, including its delivery vans, planes and other means of transportation, by 2040.
"We're really excited about, obviously, the goal that we set five years ago and reaching it seven years early," said Kara Hurst, vice president of worldwide sustainability at Amazon. "That's quite an achievement for us."
Amazon and other tech companies have said for years that they aim to eliminate the planet-warming effect of their operations. But those promises have been called into question recently by the industry's decisions to invest heavily in artificial intelligence, which consumes vast amounts of electricity through its use of data centers.
Environmentalists worry that a surge in electricity demand from data centers, electric cars and heat pumps could lead electric utilities to rely more heavily on natural gas power plants because they won't be able to build clean energy sources, transmission lines and other infrastructure fast enough.
A large data center can use as much energy as the amount produced by a small power plant serving roughly 100,000 homes.
Tech companies say they are working to increase their use of renewable energy to account for the energy demands of artificial intelligence. Google said last month that it had entered into an agreement with Berkshire Hathaway's utility in Nevada to power its data centers there with geothermal power. The tech giant said in its latest environmental report that its greenhouse gas emissions grew 13 percent in 2023 over the previous year with the increased demands of A.I.
Google's agreement with Berkshire Hathaway and investments by Microsoft, Amazon and other companies in new renewable energy projects will be needed to reduce the world's reliance on natural gas and other fossil fuels, experts said.
"That is real steel in the ground," said Leah Stokes, an associate professor of environmental politics at the University of California, Santa Barbara. "If you actually want to be a part of the clean energy transition, put your money where your mouth is."
Other energy experts say that despite making big investments in renewables, some companies like Amazon have not been transparent enough about how they are calculating and reporting their use of clean energy.
Amazon received a "B" grade from the CDP, a nonprofit group that operates a global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions to manage their environmental impact. Google and Microsoft received "A" grades and were commended for their commitment to clean energy and for being transparent about how they were working to achieve their climate goals.
"A company needs to actually outline, what are the sources that you are accounting for in that calculation?" said Simon Fischweicher, director of supply chain and reporter services at CDP.
Responding to the CDP rating, Ms. Hurst said Amazon has been focused on being accurate in its reporting and has increasingly worked to make more information public.
"I think every single year we are growing and learning and providing more data and being more transparent," Ms. Hurst said. "At a company our size and scale, collecting more data is challenging at times."
The company said it achieved its 100 percent clean electricity goal by building new solar and wind farms, installing solar panels on the roofs of some of its buildings, operating facilities on electric grids that already use a lot of renewable energy and utilizing credits produced from the use of carbon-free energy.
A group calling itself Amazon Employees for Climate Justice criticized the company for what its members see as the use of accounting and marketing to make itself look good. The group, made up of thousands of Amazon employees, has previously raised concerns to the company about its climate policies, including on social media, in a 2019 letter to Jeff Bezos, the company's executive chairman, and during a protest last year outside Amazon's headquarters.
"As Amazon employees, we are frustrated that Amazon leadership is misleading the public by distorting the truth about its renewable energy claims," the group said in a statement about the company's announcement on Wednesday. "Amazon wants us to think of its data centers as surrounded by wind and solar farms, but the reality is the company is heavily investing in data center expansions fueled by West Virginian coal, Saudi Arabian oil and Canadian fracked gas."
Amazon disputed the data and conclusions of the employee report and maintained that the company had reached its goal.
"Amazon's Sustainability Report has the correct data, transparent published methodologies and third-party assurance," the company said in a statement. "The paper you're referring has incorrect findings and assumptions, likely because, as its authors admit, it's based on data and opinion from outside the company."
No company connected to an electric grid can know for sure that it uses only clean energy if any of the power plants on the grid burn fossil fuels. Companies can try to target their use when resources like solar or wind power provide much or most of the electricity on the grid at certain times of day, like at midday or at night.
As a result, to achieve 100 percent clean energy - at least on paper - companies often buy what are known as renewable energy certificates, or RECs, from a solar or wind farm owner. By buying enough credits to match or exceed the energy its operations use, a company could make the claim that its business is powered entirely by clean energy.
"Buying a bunch of RECs doesn't help anything," Ms. Stokes said. "You just have to be investing in real projects."
In a report published by the Amazon employee group after the company's announcement, the workers said their research concluded that after deducting Amazon's use of credits, the real investment in clean energy was just a fraction of what was publicized.
But Amazon said its use of credits was a legitimate part of calculating clean energy use, even as the company worked to add more renewable resources.
"That's what we do, buy RECs for projects that are not yet operational," Ms. Hurst said.
#220
In a narrow valley with steep sides near the ancient city of Cartagena, Spain, a team of 150 engineers has just finished building a plant that could be a game changer for Repsol, the Spanish energy company, and a bellwether for the transportation industry.
Emilio Mayoral, who manages the unit, said his colleagues were in the early days of brewing fuels for trucks and airplanes from what was formerly garbage. "It's quite flexible," he said. "We are currently using used cooking oil, but we can use other waste."
Repsol says these alternative fuels will cut emissions by up to 90 percent compared with the petroleum-based products they will replace. The new fuels emit some carbon dioxide when consumed, but they are produced from plants and other organisms that absorbed carbon dioxide during their lifetimes, which is factored into the emissions calculation.
As an added benefit, this new generation of biofuel products performs as well as their fossil fuel counterparts, even in cold Northern European weather that creates problems for some fuels, Mr. Mayoral said.
Repsol, which is based in Madrid, is one of Europe's largest energy companies, with 26,000 employees and more than 4,500 service stations as well as investments in renewable energy like wind and solar power. Repsol reported income of 1.6 billion euros for the first half of 2024.
Energy companies like Repsol are betting that advanced biofuels like the ones being made at the Cartagena plant will play an important role in transportation well into the future. They figure that airplanes and heavy trucks as well as a significant portion of the passenger car fleet will continue to be powered by liquid fuels like diesel and jet fuel, despite growth in the market for electrical vehicles.
Tightening regulations on emissions, they calculate, will force greater use of fuels that emit less carbon dioxide. Both energy companies and their customers consider biofuels - which can make use of large parts of existing infrastructure like gas station pumps and storage tanks - to be a practical and relatively inexpensive solution for navigating this technological and regulatory gantlet.
Until a cheaper, more convenient clean energy source for transportation emerges, "legislators don't appear to have much choice but to continue to lean on biofuels," said Charles Jans, vice president for consulting at Argus Media, a commodities research firm.
The International Energy Agency, the Paris-based policy research group, forecasts that consumption of these fuels will increase 20 percent globally by 2030.
Repsol anticipates that its home market, Spain's Iberian Peninsula, will prove to be a kind of paradise for biofuels. Some of its rivals have closed traditional oil refineries, but Repsol plans to gradually retrofit its facilities to produce greener fuels from various forms of waste and, eventually, so-called e-fuels from gases like hydrogen and carbon dioxide.
In this way, the company is betting that it can continue to make profits from trading and processing oils, taking advantage of reduced competition and the higher prices that lower carbon fuels may bring.
"We are pushing very much not to close our refineries but to transform them," said Luis Cabra, the company's deputy chief executive, who is a point person for Repsol's energy transition. "We still believe in the internal combustion engine," he added.
The new plant in Cartagena, a port city built around the ruins of a Roman-era theater, is the first big step in this makeover, which has been aided by research at Repsol's laboratories outside Madrid.
Repsol spent €250 million grafting the new plant onto what had been a conventional refinery. Making use of existing facilities reduced the costs involved in the switch, Mr. Cabra said.
The overhaul at Repsol and other companies was prompted by European Union regulations intended to tackle climate change. For instance, energy companies like Repsol are required to supply airports with jet fuel that includes a growing proportion of what is known as sustainable aviation fuel - ingredients that did not come from fossils - starting with 2 percent in 2025 and rising to 70 percent by 2050.
A similar set of requirements exists for motor vehicle fuels, and the rules are complicated by other priorities, like protecting the food supply and tropical forests.
As a result, the path to lower emissions faces dizzying complexity in the coming years. "It gives people a headache from the long-term planning and business management perspective," said Mr. Jans of Argus.
The alternative fuels that companies like Repsol are proposing are a relatively easy way to meet the E.U. requirements because they give customers who purchase them green credentials with little effort. Drivers, for instance, can buy what is described as 100 percent renewable diesel at Repsol gas stations in Spain. The European Union pegs the biodiesel market in the trading bloc at €31 billion.
That solution is particularly welcome in areas of transportation like aviation that, analysts say, will face decades of difficulty in their conversion to new energy sources like electricity or hydrogen.
For airlines, the so-called sustainable aviation fuel that Repsol will be brewing from waste in Cartagena looks like a much easier way to comply with tightening European standards.
"It's like magic," said Teresa Parejo Navajas, head of sustainability at the Spanish airline Iberia. "You can use it in the same aircraft with the same engines and the same airport infrastructure."
But questions about the availability and sourcing of the waste ingredients like cooking oil are potential stumbling blocks for the industry.
Some environmentalists are skeptical about how green the new fuels will be, saying, for instance, that the ingredients will probably need to be transported from around the world, which will create emissions in the process.
"It's going to be very difficult to get enough oil," said Javier Andaluz, coordinator of climate and energy at Ecologistas en Acción. "Even if they took used oil from all the restaurants in Spain, it wouldn't be enough."
At its refinery in Cartagena, Repsol gives preference to the Spanish market for waste collection, Mr. Mayoral said, but he conceded that some of it could come from elsewhere, including Asia.
With energy companies scouring the globe for material to feed refineries, cooking oil and other waste have become valuable and even scarce commodities. "In essence, there is a limit on the amount of feedstock," said Alan Gelder, an analyst at the consulting firm Wood Mackenzie, though he added that supply could be expanded by loosening rules on what could go into the mix.
The scarcity has created a search for alternatives. Oleofat, a Spanish company that supplies ingredients for refining into biofuel, says it is working with dozens of sources of waste, including residues from water treatment plants.
Compounding the problem, analysts say, prices in Europe are being depressed by imports of cheap biodiesel from China and worries about oversupply. The price of sustainable aviation fuel has fallen more than 40 percent over the past year to about $1,769 per metric ton, according to Argus, although it is still much higher than the price of ordinary jet fuel, which sells for about $750 a ton.
The challenges have led some energy companies to pull back on biofuels. In July, Shell, Europe's largest energy company, said it would temporarily suspend the construction of a large biofuel plant at the Dutch city of Rotterdam, partly because of market conditions. Shell said it would take a write-down of nearly $800 million.
In December, the European Union began an investigation into the alleged dumping of Chinese biodiesel, and said in July that it would provisionally impose tariffs of up to 36.4 percent on imports from China.
Mr. Cabra of Repsol said he expected more "scrutiny" of Chinese imports because of concern that they might not be produced "under the same sustainability criteria" as in Europe.
Still, analysts say that the type of fuel Repsol is producing is likely to have a future and that the company is well placed because it started early, likely locking in suppliers. In July, the company said it expected the Cartagena plant to make a profit of as much as €140 million in 2024.
Mr. Cabra said there were still reasons for optimism despite falling prices.
"Definitely there will be more demand of this product in Europe," he said. "You are obliged every year to increase the volume that you sell."
#221
One year after world leaders made a landmark promise to move away from fossil fuels, countries have essentially made no progress in cutting emissions and tackling global warming, according to a United Nations report issued on Thursday.
Global greenhouse gas emissions soared to a record 57 gigatons last year and are not on track to decline much, if at all, this decade, the report found. Collectively, nations have been so slow to curtail their use of oil, gas and coal that it now looks unlikely that countries will be able to limit global warming to the levels they agreed to under the 2015 Paris climate agreement.
"Another year passed without action means we're worse off," said Anne Olhoff, a climate policy expert based in Denmark and a co-author of the assessment, known as the Emissions Gap Report.
The report comes a month before diplomats from around the world are scheduled to meet in Baku, Azerbaijan, for annual United Nations climate talks, where countries will discuss how they might step up efforts to address global warming.
Lately, those efforts have faced huge obstacles.
Even though renewable energy sources like wind and solar are growing rapidly around the world, demand for electricity has been rising even faster, which means countries are still burning more fossil fuels each year. Geopolitical conflicts, from the U.S.-China rivalry to war in places like Ukraine and Gaza, have made international cooperation on climate change harder. And rich countries have failed to keep their financial promises to help poor countries shift away from oil, gas and coal.
At last year's climate talks in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, representatives from nearly every nation approved a pact that called for "transitioning away from fossil fuels" and accelerating climate action this decade. But the agreement was vague on how to do so and on which countries should do what, and so far there has been little follow-through.
The new U.N. report finds that at least 151 countries have formally pledged under the Paris climate agreement to curb their greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. If every country followed through on its stated plans, which is far from assured, then global emissions could be 3 percent to 11 percent lower at the end of the decade than they are today.
But that would still put the Earth on track to heat up an average of roughly 2.6 to 2.8 degrees Celsius (4.7 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit) over preindustrial levels by the century's end, the report found. The planet has already warmed roughly 1.3 degrees Celsius (2.3 degrees Fahrenheit). That may not sound like much, but every fraction of a degree of warming brings greater risks from deadly heat waves, wildfires, drought, storms and species extinction, scientists have said.
Under the Paris Agreement, world leaders vowed to hold global warming to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius, and preferably closer to 1.5 degrees Celsius, to limit the risks from climate catastrophes.
Current policies don't come close to meeting those goals, the report found. To stay below 2 degrees Celsius, global emissions would need to fall roughly 28 percent between now and 2030. To stay at 1.5 degrees Celsius, global emissions would need to fall about 43 percent, requiring a blindingly fast transformation of the global energy system.
Over the past year, only the island nation of Madagascar has submitted a new, stronger pledge to curb emissions by 2030, despite exhortations by United Nations officials for all countries to bolster their plans. And with each year that goes by without additional action, the cuts needed to hold warming to those low levels become more and more extreme.
"Theoretically, it's still possible to stay below 1.5 degrees, but it's not really feasible anymore," said Christoph Bertram, an associate research professor at the University of Maryland's Center for Global Sustainability.
Inger Andersen, the executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, said it was still important for nations to accelerate their efforts to cut emissions and keep warming as low as possible.
"Even if the world overshoots 1.5 degrees Celsius, and the chances of this happening are increasing every day, we must keep striving" to bring emissions down to zero as soon as possible, Ms. Andersen said. "Every fraction of a degree avoided counts in terms of lives saved, economies protected, damages avoided, biodiversity conserved."
In the coming year, countries are expected to submit new formal targets for cutting emissions by 2035. It remains to be seen how ambitious those goals will be and whether countries will take concrete steps to follow through.
One of the big topics at the climate talks in Baku will be money. For years, developing countries like India and Indonesia have said they would be willing to accelerate efforts to cut emissions if they received financial assistance from wealthier countries to do so. According to the U.N. report, cutting global emissions to zero could require an extra $900 billion to $1.2 trillion per year in global investment.
That amount, the report said, is "substantial" but also manageable in the broader context of the global economy and financial markets worth close to $110 trillion.
#222
The collapse of a giant wind turbine blade off the Massachusetts coast confirmed Peter Kaizer's worst fears about the dangers a new clean energy business could pose to fishermen like him.
Jagged pieces of fiberglass and other materials from the shattered blade drifted with the tide, forcing officials to close beaches on Nantucket and leaving Mr. Kaizer worried about the threat the fragments might pose to his vessel and other fishing boats, especially at night when the debris would be harder to avoid.
"All these small boats could be subject to damage," Mr. Kaizer said. "Everyone wants this green legacy, but at the cost of what?"
The blade, which was more than 300 feet long, failed in July, but the repercussions are still unfolding at the $4 billion project that it came from - Vineyard Wind 1. Developers had hoped to finish the project this summer, making it the first large-scale wind farm completed in U.S. waters, but now that goal will take a lot longer than expected.
The blade failure is the latest problem slowing the fledgling U.S. offshore wind industry, which the Biden administration and East Coast states are counting on to deliver emission-free energy to millions of people from Virginia to Maine. President Biden and governors of those states had hoped to follow the examples of European countries like Britain and Denmark, which have plunked down thousands of wind turbines around the North Sea.
But the American offshore wind business has struggled to get going because of cost overruns, delays in issuing permits, and opposition from local residents and fishing groups. Several large projects were canceled or postponed even before the blade failure in Massachusetts because their costs increased sharply and developers did not anticipate supply chain problems and higher interest rates.
The failure of the blade, which was made by GE Vernova, has also raised concerns about safety and reliability. In addition to the incident in Massachusetts, two GE Vernova blades broke this year at a wind farm called Dogger Bank, which is under construction off the coast of England. The company has said the incidents are unrelated but has provided few details about their causes.
Offshore wind turbines are essential to the East Coast because states like Massachusetts and New York do not have ideal conditions for lots of large solar and wind farms on land. Mr. Biden has said he wants 30 gigawatts of offshore wind capacity in place by 2030, enough to meet the needs of 10 million households.
The Vineyard Wind 1 farm is owned by Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners, a Danish investment firm, and Avangrid, the U.S. subsidiary of Iberdrola, a Spanish utility. After suspending construction there, federal officials allowed the developers in August to restart installing some components like towers and nacelles, the compartments at the top. But they are still barred from installing blades or operating completed turbines, depriving the project of revenue from electricity sales.
The risk of such events and the greater scrutiny of offshore wind projects that is expected to follow will probably raise the already high cost of offshore wind farms relative to other forms of renewable energy, analysts said. Those costs are typically borne by residents on their electricity bills and the federal and state governments that offer subsidies to wind and other renewable energy projects.
"I think there needs to be a bit of a reset in terms of how these offshore projects are thought about and the inherent risk in these projects," said Andrew Kaplowitz, an analyst at Citigroup.
Much of the new scrutiny is likely to focus on the few companies that make wind turbines and their components, particularly GE Vernova, formerly the energy division of General Electric, the conglomerate that split itself into three companies this year.
In recent years, GE Vernova, which has long made wind turbines that are installed on land, joined a race to develop ever-larger offshore turbines. Its entry in this competition was the Haliade-X, a monster machine that is taller than any building in Boston. This is the turbine that was involved in the Vineyard Wind and Dogger Bank incidents.
By developing Haliade-X, executives at GE had hoped to capitalize on a prospective offshore boom by offering what was at that time the most powerful turbine on the market. Developers wanted larger turbines to make projects more profitable by allowing them to generate more energy from each machine.
For a while, the strategy worked. In the run-up to construction, Vineyard Wind's owners shifted from a machine made by Vestas, a Danish turbine maker, to the GE turbine because it was nearly 40 percent larger.
But some of the promised gains of larger turbines have not materialized. The supply chain chaos caused by the pandemic raised the costs of many components, and Russia's invasion of Ukraine pushed up the price of energy. GE Vernova's offshore wind business is losing money, and its only secured orders are from two projects - Vineyard Wind and Dogger Bank. In June, Scott Strazik, GE Vernova's chief executive, said these deals were "all in the red," meaning the company was losing money on them.
"It was business that was underwritten prior to Ukraine without, in some cases, the best escalation protections," Mr. Strazik said, referring to contracts that did not allow the company to pass along higher costs to its customers.
GE Vernova declined to make Mr. Strazik or another executive available for an interview for this article but answered written questions.
The blade failures of this summer will not help. GE Vernova placed preliminary blame on what it called a "manufacturing deviation" at its factory in Gaspé, Quebec, for the shattered blade off Massachusetts.
Making giant wind farm blades involves arranging structural elements like carbon fiber and wood in a mold, which is then filled with liquid resins that harden and bind the ungainly structures together.
GE Vernova says there was "insufficient bonding that the quality assurance program should have identified." The company said it was inspecting around 150 blades made at the plant, using a robot called a "crawler" that can move around inside the components. It also plans to use an algorithm, linked to sensors inside the blade, to warn of incidents.
The company insists that it has been hit with one-offs rather than systemic flaws. GE Vernova said the first failure at Dogger Bank, in May, had been caused by an error during installation. The second, in August, happened because a turbine was left in a "fixed position" during a storm.
"I think it is unusual to have three similar incidents like this," said Eamon Nolan, a partner at the law firm of Vinson & Elkins. Mr. Nolan, who specializes in renewable energy, said he did not doubt GE Vernova's explanations.
The makers of offshore turbines may have prized speed over quality, some industry officials said.
Fraser McLachlan, chief executive of GCube, a London firm that insures wind turbines, said the industry had been so determined to increase the size of turbines that it might have skipped over some important steps.
"They haven't had time to properly test" those larger turbines and blades, he said.
Mr. McLachlan added that the failure rates in offshore wind were much lower than in land-based wind turbines but that the costs of any failure tended to be far higher.
Some groups that have long opposed offshore wind turbines have seized on the failures as a reason regulators should be more reluctant to approve the use of these machines. Fishing industry organizations in particular complain that they have been told little about the cause of the accident off Nantucket and the dangers that blade fragments may pose to marine life and people.
"Vineyard Wind's actions subsequent to the incident have raised legitimate questions of transparency," the Responsible Offshore Development Alliance, which represents members of the commercial fishing industry, said in a letter to the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, an arm of the Interior Department.
The beach closings, however brief, came as a shock to coastal communities, bringing home the potential downsides of living near a large energy project, even a renewable one.
Although wind and solar farms are important for reducing emissions, "they are, in order to be effective, industrial-scale activity," said Andrew Gottlieb, executive director of the Association to Preserve Cape Cod, an environmental group that has supported the development of offshore wind. "And every industrial-scale activity has negatives associated with it."
#223
The United States and China, the world's two largest climate polluters, have agreed to jointly tackle global warming by ramping up wind, solar and other renewable energy with the goal of displacing fossil fuels.
The announcement comes as President Biden prepares to meet Wednesday with President Xi Jinping of China for their first face-to-face discussion in a year. The climate agreement could emerge as a bright spot in talks that are likely to focus on sensitive topics including Taiwan, the war in Ukraine and the war between Israel and Hamas.
The statements of cooperation released separately by the United States and China on Tuesday do not include a promise by China to phase out its heavy use of coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel, or to stop permitting and building new coal plants. That has been a sticking point for the United States in months of discussions with Beijing on climate change.
But both countries agreed to "pursue efforts to triple renewable energy capacity globally by 2030." That growth should reach levels high enough "so as to accelerate the substitution for coal, oil and gas generation," the agreement says. Both countries anticipate "meaningful absolute power sector emission reduction" in this decade, it says. That appears to be the first time China has agreed to specific emissions targets in any part of its economy.
The agreement comes two weeks before representatives from nearly 200 countries converge in Dubai as part of the United Nations climate talks known as COP28. The United States and China have an outsize role to play there as nations debate whether to phase out fossil fuel.

"This lays the foundation for the negotiations in Dubai," said David Sandalow, a veteran of the Clinton and Obama administrations who is now a fellow at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy. "It sends a strong signal to other countries that this language works, and more broadly that differences can be overcome."
The agreement does not specify how China will push fossil fuels off its electricity grid. While the United States has displaced some of its fossil fuels by increasing solar and wind power, China has been building more renewable energy than any other country but at the same time has also been constructing new coal-fired power plants.
Still, many of those Chinese coal-fired plants are expected to operate at less than full capacity and the International Energy Agency predicted last month that China's use of coal will drop in the next several years, and possibly as soon as next year.
An analysis by CarbonBrief, a United Kingdom-based energy publication, found that China's emissions are likely to fall next year, after they had rebounded from a decline because of coronavirus restrictions. That is in part because of "record installations of low-carbon electricity" that the analysis found could be enough to meet rising electricity demand.
Mr. Sandalow said displacing fossil fuels as described in the U.S.-China agreement would allow the countries to share knowledge as they both work to add more renewable power to their electric grids and invest in energy storage and better transmission.
"This is the nature of diplomatic statements, they're not binding legal documents but statements of intention," Mr. Sandalow said. But he added, "In my experience, neither the U.S. government nor the Chinese government make high-profile statements like this unless there are serious plans to implement the agreement."
Earlier this month, John Kerry, Mr. Biden's climate envoy, met with his Chinese counterpart, Xie Zhenhua, at the Sunnylands estate in California to lay the groundwork for the agreement announced late Tuesday.
"The United States and China recognize that the climate crisis has increasingly affected countries around the world," the Sunnylands Statement on Enhancing Cooperation to Address the Climate Crisis says.
"Both countries stress the importance of COP 28 in responding meaningfully to the climate crisis during this critical decade and beyond" and pledge in the statement "to rise up to one of the greatest challenges of our time for present and future generations of humankind."
As part of the deal, China agreed to set reduction targets for all greenhouse gas emissions. That is significant because the current Chinese climate goal addresses only carbon dioxide, leaving out methane, nitrous oxide and other gases that are acting as a blanket around the planet.
Methane spews from oil and gas operations as well as coal mining and can be 80 times as potent as a greenhouse gas as carbon dioxide in the short term. Greenhouse gases other than carbon dioxide account for a fifth of China's emissions. Methane makes up about half of that, and other gases like hydrofluorocarbons used in refrigeration and nitrous oxide account for the rest.
The Chinese government released a long-awaited blueprint last week for addressing methane, but analysts dismissed it as toothless because it lacked targets for emissions reductions.
The Sunnylands agreement also lacks targets but says the two countries will work together to set them.
China has refused to join the Global Methane Pledge, an agreement among more than 150 nations, led by the United States and Europe, that promises to collectively reduce emissions by 30 percent by 2030.
The United States and China also agreed that in the next set of climate pledges - which nations are supposed to put forward in 2025 - China will set emissions reduction targets across its economy. Its current pledge calls for carbon dioxide emissions to peak before 2030 but does not specify how high they might go before the curve begins to bend or specify by how much it might slash emissions.
President Xi has also pledged that China will become carbon neutral by 2060, meaning it will produce no more carbon emissions than it can offset.
Manish Bapna, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group, praised the U.S.-China agreement and called it "a foundation of ambition" ahead of the U.N. climate summit in Dubai.
"This sends a powerful message of cooperation on the existential challenge of our time," Mr. Bapna said. "What's important now is that both countries make good on today's pledge."
The deal is the product of months of negotiations between Mr. Kerry, 79, and Mr. Xie, 73, friends and sparring partners on climate for more than 25 years. Both left retirement to become climate envoys for their countries and have advocated within their governments for diplomacy on climate change. Mr. Xie, who suffered a stroke last year, is expected to retire after the U.N. summit in Dubai.
Their negotiations came to a standstill in 2022 after Nancy Pelosi, then the House speaker, traveled to Taiwan, a move seen as provocative by Beijing. Then, early this year, an American fighter jet shot down a Chinese spy balloon that had floated over the continental United States.
In July, amid efforts by the Biden administration to improve ties, Mr. Kerry traveled to Beijing.
That effort did not end in success. Mr. Xi took the opportunity of Mr. Kerry's visit to deliver a speech declaring that China would never be "swayed by others" on its climate goals.
Still, Mr. Kerry said optimistically at the time that "we set the stage" for a deal.
When it comes to climate change, no relationship is as important as the one between the United States and China.
The United States, the biggest climate polluter in history, and China, the current largest polluter, together account for 38 percent of the world's greenhouse gases.
That means the willingness of the two countries to urgently slash emissions will essentially determine whether nations can limit the average global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels.
That's the threshold beyond which scientists say increasingly severe wildfires, floods, heat and drought will outpace humanity's ability to adapt. The planet has already warmed 1.2 degrees.
But neither the United States nor China will act rapidly unless the other does. Both nations are taking steps to tackle emissions, but hard-liners in each country argue the other is not doing enough, and each country has cast the other's climate promises as insincere.
While the United States has reduced its emissions, Chinese officials have said the American goal of cutting its pollution at least 50 percent from 2005 levels by the end of this decade is inadequate, and some officials have questioned whether the United States can even meet it.
Leaders in China also are acutely aware of the partisan divide in the America on climate change and have little confidence that a future administration would keep promises made by Mr. Biden. Most Republican presidential candidates refuse to acknowledge the established science of climate change, and the front-runner, Donald Trump, has promised to halt climate action and encourage more oil drilling, gas fracking and coal mining.
American lawmakers, on the other hand, note that China's emissions continue to grow and that the country has so far only promised to hit a peak sometime before 2030 and then maintain a plateau before dropping. That's unacceptable for most members of Congress, who believe that China, the world's second largest economy, should be moving at a pace similar to that of the United States.
The Chinese government issued a plan on Nov. 10 to pay large annual bonuses to electric utilities to keep coal-fired capacity available for surges in power demand, even if it is seldom used. Mr. Xi has long emphasized energy security and self-reliance.
That emphasis increased after a 2021 heat wave coincided with a shutdown of many coal-fired power plants. Blackouts ensued in many cities, with office workers being forced to flee down long flights of stairs and with one chemical factory blowing up, injuring dozens of workers.
#224
Federal regulators on Monday approved sweeping changes to how America's electric grids are planned and funded, in a move that supporters hope could spur thousands of miles of new high-voltage power lines and make it easier to add more wind and solar energy.
The new rule by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees interstate electricity transmission, is the most significant attempt in years to upgrade and expand the country's creaking electricity network. Experts have warned that there aren't nearly enough high-voltage power lines being built today, putting the country at greater risk of blackouts from extreme weather while making it harder to shift to renewable sources of energy and cope with rising electricity demand.
A big reason for the slow pace of grid expansion is that operators rarely plan for the long term, the commission said.
The nation's three main electric grids are overseen by a patchwork of utilities and regional grid operators that mainly focus on ensuring the reliability of electricity to homes and businesses. When it comes to building new transmission lines, grid operators tend to be reactive, responding after a wind-farm developer asks to connect to the existing network or once a reliability problem is spotted.
The new federal rule, which was two years in the making, requires grid operators around the country to identify needs 20 years into the future, taking into account factors like changes in the energy mix, the growing number of states that require wind and solar power and the risks of extreme weather.
Grid planners would have to evaluate the benefits of new transmission lines, such as whether they would lower electricity costs or reduce the risk of blackouts, and develop methods for splitting the costs of those lines among customers and businesses.
"We must plan our nation's grid for the long term," said Willie Phillips, a Democrat who chairs the energy commission. "Our country's aging grid is being tested in ways that we've never seen before. Without significant action now, we won't be able to keep the lights on in the face of increasing demand, extreme weather, and new technologies."
What Is FERC, Exactly?
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may be the most important climate agency you've never heard of.
The commission approved the rule by a 2-1 vote, with the two Democratic commissioners in favor and the lone Republican, Mark Christie, opposed. Mr. Christie said the rule would allow states that want more renewable energy to unfairly pass on the costs of the necessary grid upgrades to their neighbors.
"This rule utterly fails to protect consumers," said Mr. Christie. He said it "was intended to facilitate a massive transfer of wealth from consumers to for-profit, special interests, particularly wind and solar developers."
It could take years for the rule to have an effect, and the commission could face legal challenges from states concerned about higher costs.
Nationwide, energy companies have proposed more than 11,000 wind, solar and battery projects, but many are in limbo because there's not enough capacity on the grid to accommodate them. What's more, individual developers are currently required to pay for grid upgrades to accommodate their projects in a process that is piecemeal and slow.
Some critics say that's like asking a trucking company to pay for an additional lane on a highway that all motorists ultimately use. A better approach, they say, would be to plan ahead for broad upgrades with the costs shared by a wide set of energy providers and users.
But the question of who pays for those grid expansions has sparked furious debate.
Officials in states that are less enthusiastic about wind and solar power, like Kentucky or West Virginia, say they could be forced to foot the bill for new multibillion-dollar transmission lines meant to help states like New Jersey or Illinois fulfill their renewable energy ambitions.
To allay those concerns, the commission laid out guidelines around how to split the costs of new transmission projects. Before any lines are planned, utilities and grid operators are supposed to work with states on a formula for allocating costs to customers based on the potential benefits from the new lines.
There is some precedent for this. The grid that handles electricity in 15 Midwest states, known as MISO, recently approved $10.3 billion in new power lines, partly because many of its states have ambitious renewable energy goals that require more transmission. MISO estimated the lines would create up to $69 billion in total benefits, including lower fuel costs and fewer blackouts. The grid operator was then able to split the costs even among states that didn't have renewable policies but would share in the rewards.
"It's super hard, and not everyone got what they wanted, but we all agreed that we would sit in a room and figure this out," said Carrie Zalewski, a former state regulator for Illinois who is now with the American Clean Power Association, a renewable energy trade group.
Mr. Christie said the final rule didn't give states enough power to object to how the costs would be shared. But Allison Clements, the other Democrat on the commission, said that giving each state a veto was "a recipe for inaction."
The rule would also require utilities and grid operators to consider new technologies that might cost more upfront but could make grids more efficient and deliver long-term benefits, such as advanced conductors that can carry twice as much current as traditional lines.
Environmental groups and renewable energy companies praised the new rules.
"This is a monumental day in the fight against climate change," said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic majority leader, who had urged the commission to pass a forceful grid-planning rule.
Over the past year, Mr. Schumer and other Democrats have warned that efforts to fight climate change could fail if the nation's grids aren't overhauled. Power plants that burn coal and gas are a major source of the pollution that is dangerously heating the planet. While the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act poured hundreds of billions of dollars into cleaner alternatives like wind and solar power, one recent analysis found that half of the climate benefits of that law could be lost if the United States can't build new transmission at a faster pace.
It remains to be seen how effective the new rule will be, since that will depend on how grid operators implement it. A 2011 attempt by the commission to encourage transmission planning largely faltered, in part because many utilities were opposed to new long-distance lines that might undercut their monopolies, said Ari Peskoe, director of the Electricity Law Initiative at Harvard Law School. Because of the decentralized nature of the nation's grids, there is only so much that federal regulators can do to force operators to comply.
"I suspect this rule will be helpful in parts of the country where there's already momentum for more transmission development" such as the Northeast, said Mr. Peskoe. "But in places where big utilities are resistant to more transmission, I don't know if FERC can do that much."
The new rule affects grid planning within 12 large regions around the country, but it wouldn't require the planning of transmission to connect those different regions to each other, which some experts say is an even bigger need. The rule would also not affect the main grid in Texas, which is insulated from federal regulations because it doesn't cross state lines.
The rule also doesn't address the logistical and political challenges of constructing new long-distance power lines. It can take a decade or more for developers to locate a project through numerous jurisdictions, receive permits from a patchwork of different federal and state agencies and resolve lawsuits about spoiled views or damage to ecosystems.
The Biden administration recently finalized a program intended to cut the federal permitting time for certain large transmission lines in half. But speeding things up further might require action from Congress, where lawmakers have struggled to agree on new transmission policies.
In a separate rule on Monday, the federal energy commission did, however, outline certain situations in which it might override state objections to a small subset of new power lines.
At issue are a set of ten "national interest electric transmission corridors" that the Energy Department has tentatively identified across the country - places where new lines would be particularly beneficial. If state regulators either blocked or delayed a project in those corridors, the federal commission could step in to approve it.
But some experts question how often this would happen, since the commission has historically preferred to collaborate with states.
#225
Countries have made scant progress in curbing their greenhouse gas emissions over the past year, keeping the planet on track for dangerous levels of warming this century, according to a new report published Thursday.
The report by the Climate Action Tracker, a research group, estimates that the climate and energy policies currently pursued by governments around the world would cause global temperatures to rise roughly 2.7 degrees Celsius, or 4.9 degrees Fahrenheit, above preindustrial levels by 2100.
That estimate of future warming has barely budged for three years now, the group said.
"We are clearly failing to bend the curve," said Sofia Gonzales-Zuñiga, a climate policy specialist at Climate Analytics, a science and policy organization, and a lead author of the report. "As the world edges closer to these dangerous climate thresholds, the need for immediate, stronger action to reverse this trend becomes ever more urgent."
The study was issued during the United Nations climate summit in Baku, Azerbaijan, where diplomats and world leaders have gathered to discuss how to raise trillions of dollars to cope with rising global temperatures.
Under the 2015 Paris Agreement, world leaders had pledged to hold total global warming to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius, and preferably closer to 1.5 degrees Celsius, to limit the risks from climate catastrophes. Scientists have said that every fraction of a degree of warming brings greater risks from deadly heat waves, wildfires, drought, storms and species extinction.
That more stringent target looks increasingly out of reach.
Every year, Climate Action Tracker scrutinizes all the climate policies that countries have enacted worldwide, such as regulations to curb pollution from power plants or to improve the efficiency of cars. They then estimate the effect of these policies on future greenhouse gas emissions and calculate how much of a temperature increase the world can expect.
Over the past three years, the United States has enacted the Inflation Reduction Act, which is expected to pour hundreds of billions of dollars into low-carbon technologies like wind, solar and nuclear energy, and carbon capture technology. China has been selling record numbers of electric vehicles. The European Union has ramped up its targets for renewable energy and heat pumps.
Yet the world is still heading for significant warming because global energy demand is growing faster than clean energy is expanding, which means fossil fuel use has been rising to fill the gap.
"Rising emissions while renewables boom is not a paradox," said Niklas Höhne, a scientist with NewClimate Institute, which partners with Climate Action Tracker. "In recent years fossil fuels won the race against renewables, leading to increasing emissions."
As part of global climate talks, many countries have formally pledged to zero out their emissions by around midcentury. If governments followed through, warming might be limited to roughly 2.1 degrees Celsius, the report said. But many countries have not backed up those lofty promises with concrete action.
Climate Action Tracker also tried to estimate the potential effects of Donald J. Trump's return to the White House. He has promised to slash support for clean energy and electric vehicles while dismantling environmental regulations.
The authors calculated that a complete rollback of U.S. climate policies might add as much as a few tenths of a degree of warming by 2100. The effect would be relatively limited, in part because the United States accounts for just 13 percent of global emissions today.
On the other hand, if the Trump administration's actions led other countries to weaken or abandon their climate policies, the effect might be far greater.
The study also calculated what countries would need to do to hold total warming closer to a long-term average of 1.5 degrees Celsius, as leaders have pledged. The United States would need to slash its emissions roughly 80 percent below 2005 levels by 2035. China would need to cut its emissions by two-thirds over the same time frame. India, Europe, Brazil, Japan and Australia would all have to make deeper cuts than they are currently planning.
This year, Earth will already be 1.5 degrees Celsius hotter than preindustrial levels, at least temporarily. At the climate talks in Baku, many world leaders have been reluctant to acknowledge that the world is overwhelmingly likely to exceed that threshold in the years ahead.
But some scientists have been speaking out.
"It is always possible to find arguments to make 1.5°C forever possible, but they increasingly diverge from reality," wrote Glen Peters, a senior researcher at the CICERO Center for International Climate Research in Oslo, in a paper published this week. "It is time to admit that the world will cross 1.5°C."
At the same time, Dr. Peters wrote, crossing that threshold "does not mean the world has failed." Scientists have said that climate change risks increase with every fraction of a degree, so it will always be worthwhile to cut emissions as quickly as feasible to prevent further warming. But, he added, focusing on an unrealistic temperature limit "is no longer useful."
"Crossing 1.5°C is not a time to give up," he wrote, "but a time to acknowledge our failures and find a new hope moving forward."
#226
President Biden's trillion-dollar effort to invigorate American manufacturing and speed a transition to cleaner energy sources is colliding with a surge of cheap exports from China, threatening to wipe out the investment and jobs that are central to Mr. Biden's economic agenda.
Mr. Biden is weighing new measures to protect nascent industries like electric-vehicle production and solar-panel manufacturing from Chinese competition. On Wednesday in Pittsburgh, the president called for higher tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminum products and announced a new trade investigation into China's heavily subsidized shipbuilding industry.
"I'm not looking for a fight with China," Mr. Biden said. "I'm looking for competition - and fair competition."
Unions, manufacturing groups and some economists say the administration may need to do much more to restrict Chinese imports if it hopes to ensure that Mr. Biden's vast industrial initiatives are not swamped by lower-cost Chinese versions of the same emerging technologies.
"It is a very clear and present danger, because the industrial policy of the Biden administration is largely focused on not the traditional low-skill, low-wage manufacturing, but new, high-tech manufacturing," said Eswar Prasad, a Cornell University economist who specializes in trade policies.
"Those are precisely the areas where China has upped its own investments," he said.
Both America and China are using large government subsidies to stoke economic growth and try to dominate what they believe will be the most important global markets of this century: the technologies meant to speed a global transition away from fossil fuels in order to avert catastrophic climate change.
But their approach to financing those industries has differed in important ways. Chinese officials have poured money into factories, including offering attractive loans from state-run banks to companies that might not have survived otherwise, to help offset a real estate crisis and sluggish domestic consumption. Those factories often run on low-cost labor.
China's factories are now exporting goods at prices that are often far below those of their competitors, helping to power its economy. In some cases, other nations allege, Chinese firms are selling products abroad at a loss.
Mr. Biden is also funneling federal money into targeted industries, in hopes of seeding innovation and opening new pathways to the middle class through well-paying jobs. He has signed an infrastructure law, an advanced manufacturing law focused on semiconductors and a suite of production incentives contained in his climate law, the Inflation Reduction Act. The spending and tax cuts from those laws have spurred hundreds of billions of dollars in announced corporate plans for new factory investment in the United States.
Some of that assistance comes with strings attached. The administration has conditioned federal money on companies paying relatively high wages or providing child care for workers. Other credits are conditioned on factories drawing on components that are mined or produced in America. Mr. Biden has staked his re-election pitch on creating more well-paying jobs, particularly union jobs, but some economists have raised concerns that those efforts to change corporate behavior will undermine his core industrial-policy objectives.
Mr. Biden and his economic team increasingly see Chinese imports as a direct threat to the president's agenda. They are weighing new and higher tariffs on some strategic imports from China and have initiated several investigations into Chinese technologies, like software and other components of electric vehicles and other internet-connected automobiles.
Administration officials are mindful of how previous surges of cheap Chinese exports of steel and aluminum hollowed out American manufacturing hubs in previous decades. Although heavily subsidized exports of solar panels, batteries and electric vehicles are helpful for containing inflation and combating climate change, administration officials believe that the prospect of lost jobs and shuttered businesses is too high, politically and economically.
The competing goals represent a challenge as the Biden administration tries to make the case that China should scale back its production of clean energy technology.
"On the one hand the Biden administration is doing everything it can to increase consumption of renewable energy products," said Scott Lincicome, a trade expert at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research center. "On the other hand, it is warning China against the sale of cheap renewable energy products, which would boost American consumption of the very products we're trying to encourage."
Janet L. Yellen, the Treasury secretary, admonished her Chinese counterparts for unfair trade practices on a visit to China last week. Administration officials voiced concerns about Chinese overproduction on Tuesday, ahead of Mr. Biden's announcements in Pittsburgh.
"China's policy-driven overcapacity poses a serious risk to the future of the American steel and aluminum industry," Lael Brainard, who heads the White House National Economic Council, said during a call with reporters. "China cannot export its way to recovery. China is simply too big to play by its own rules."
Chinese officials have levied similar complaints against the Biden administration. In a response to the new investigation of Beijing's shipbuilding subsidies, officials at China's Commerce Ministry issued a statement saying that "the development of Chinese industries is the result of technological innovation and active participation in market competition by Chinese enterprises" and not unfair state support.
"We urge the U.S. to respect the facts and multilateral rules, immediately stop its wrong practices and return to the rules-based multilateral trading system," the officials said.
But Americans are not alone in their complaints about China's new tide of exports. European leaders have raised similar concerns, including Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany, who complained about Chinese goods being sold at a loss in Europe during an official visit to Beijing this week.
The European Union is carrying out its own investigations into Chinese imports of electric vehicles, which could ultimately result in tariffs on those products. The bloc has already put in place a carbon border tax that is expected to hit China, which has looser environmental regulations. The new program will charge duties based on carbon emissions associated with the production of imported goods. And Mexico and Brazil are also pursuing anti-dumping investigations into China that could lead to new trade restrictions.
Bruno Le Maire, the French finance minister, noted on Wednesday that the deficit between what Europe exports to China and what it imports had tripled over the last 15 years and that more needed to be done to level the playing field.
"Europe must show her teeth on trade and on the trade relationships," Mr. Le Maire said, explaining that while trade wars would be damaging, Europe should embrace the kinds of industrial policies that China and the United States have adopted.
"I just want to emphasize the need for Europe to better protect its economic and industrial interest," he said.
The United States and its allies have struggled in the past to muster a coordinated response to threats to their domestic industries from Chinese competition. That could change this time around, said Mark Haefele, the chief investment officer of UBS Global Wealth Management. The success of China's manufacturing exports, he said, could prove to be "a catalyst for a more coordinated response" from the United States and Europe on trade.
The arguments for tougher protectionism were on display at the spring meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank this week. While the fund warned that tariffs were a threat to the global outlook, top economic policymakers explained why they viewed measures to safeguard their domestic industries as necessary.
"There's been a surge in investment in manufacturing, and in these sectors capacity utilization is very low," Ms. Yellen said on China's spending on green energy technology. "With these subsidies, the amount of capacity exceeds global demand, and what it's likely to be even over the next decade."
She added: "And so this isn't a level playing field."
The administration has faced pressure to do more to protect American industry. Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, who is facing a difficult re-election bid, called last week for Mr. Biden to ban Chinese electric vehicles, which already face high tariffs. He called Chinese E. V.s an "existential threat to the American auto industry."
Mr. Biden upset Mr. Brown and other manufacturing supporters in 2022 when he declared a two-year pause on existing tariffs on imported Chinese solar panels, effectively allowing more of them to enter the U.S. market. He vetoed a bipartisan bill in 2023 that would have reinstated those tariffs ahead of June 2024, when the two-year pause will expire.
He has also faced pressure to raise tariffs on Chinese components for electric vehicles or other clean energy technology. Tariffs are currently 7.5 percent on electric vehicle battery packs but 25 percent on the components of those packs, said Brad Setser, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington and a former adviser to the U.S. trade representative under Mr. Biden. The lower rate should be raised, he said.
Mr. Setser also noted that China had long steered its subsidies to companies that manufacture and source their products in China - and sometimes had required those companies to be Chinese-owned.
"In order to build up industrial sectors where China has a first-mover advantage and now a cost advantage," he said, "you need to have an insulated market - and to use some of the tools that China has already used."
#226
The Environmental Protection Agency announced $4.3 billion in funding on Monday for 25 new projects proposed by states, tribes, local governments and territories to tackle climate change. The funding could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 971 million metric tons by 2050, or roughly the emissions of five million homes over 25 years, according to the agency.
Among the jurisdictions that will get funding, Nebraska will receive $307 million to reduce agricultural waste and enhance energy efficiency in homes and buildings. Pennsylvania will get $396 million to reduce industrial pollution and create about 6,000 jobs.
"This is a truly exciting day for Lincoln and for Nebraska and for other cities and states all across the country who are working so hard to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and leave a better, brighter future for our children," said Leirion Gaylor Baird, the mayor of Lincoln, Neb., in a call on Friday.
Ms. Baird said the funds could reduce Lincoln's greenhouse gas emissions by 77 percent by 2050.
The 2024 Election
As Kamala Harris runs for the White House, she is widely expected to try to protect the climate achievements of the Biden administration.
Other regions that received money included Southern California to decarbonize freight vehicles; Michigan and tribal partners to adopt new renewable energy projects; Atlantic coastal states to sequester carbon through wetland preservation; Alaska to replace residential oil-burning systems with heat pumps; and the Nez Percé Tribe to retrofit homes.
"I have always said we've got to reject the false choice between protecting the planet and protecting our jobs," said Gov. Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania on Monday afternoon. "We can and must do both."
The money is part of the Climate Pollution Reduction Grants program, a $5 billion fund included in the Inflation Reduction Act. The act was a key victory by the Biden administration, providing $396 billion in climate and clean energy funding.
States, plus Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, were each eligible to receive $3 million to create climate action plans in 2023 during the program's first phase. All but five states - Florida, Kentucky, Iowa, South Dakota and Wyoming - submitted outlines in March.
Alongside states, the 67 most populous metro areas got $1 million each to create climate action plans in Phase One, $25 million went to tribes and tribal consortia, and $2 million went to other U.S. territories. When a state chose not to apply, the funding defaulted to its three largest metro areas, providing $1 million to develop a plan.
The climate action plans approached cutting emissions in a variety of ways. In total, the E.P.A. received almost 300 applications outlining projects for the program's second phase.
If states were able to do everything their climate action plans promised, it could result in at least a 7 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions nationwide by 2030, equivalent to taking almost one-third of gasoline cars off the road or decommissioning half the nation's methane plants, according to an analysis by the Rocky Mountain Institute.
"These plans, whether or not they're funded through implementation grants, are still exciting because they provide a road map for what states really can do to be actionable," said Rachel Patterson, state policy adviser at Evergreen Action, a climate advocacy organization.
On Friday, Michael Regan, the administrator of the E.P.A., said the funds would be delivered in early fall.
#227
The Biden administration announced on Monday progress on 15 large renewable energy projects, an apparent effort to project confidence in an industry that is facing steep challenges.
All of the developments are on federal lands in the West, including a geothermal lease sale across 12 counties in Northern Nevada, a new transmission line west of Phoenix, and the completed construction of more than 800 megawatts of solar power in Southern California.
"This administration is taking an all-hands-on-deck approach toward ambitious clean energy goals," said Deb Haaland, secretary of the Interior Department, which oversees public lands.
The administration wants to issue permits for 25 gigawatts of renewable energy on public lands by 2025, enough to power about five million homes. It's a target that could be surpassed if all the projects announced on Monday reach completion.
The announcements come at a time of setbacks for offshore wind farms. Orsted, a Danish developer, recently announced that it was scrapping two planned wind farms off the coast of New Jersey, citing problems with supply chains, global inflation and rising interest rates.
Avangrid, a subsidiary of a Spanish utility company, Iberdrola, terminated a long-term power purchase agreement for the Park City Wind project off the coast of Massachusetts. Over the summer, Avangrid pulled out of another project with Commonwealth Wind for an offshore farm south of Martha's Vineyard.
According to ClearView Energy Partners, a consulting firm, 24 percent of offshore wind capacity that has been contracted is now at risk. The cancellations threaten the administration's goal of deploying 30 gigawatts of offshore wind by 2030.
The troubles with renewable energy extend to electric vehicles. Mary Barra, the chief executive of General Motors, acknowledged a "bumpy" transition as the company announced that it would not meet its target of building 100,000 electric vehicles in the second half of this year and another 400,000 in the first six months of 2024. Honda scrapped a $5 billion deal with General Motors to build an affordable electric vehicle. Ford Motor announced that it was delaying the start of production at one of its two electric vehicle battery plants in Kentucky.
Republicans who oppose a transition away from fossil fuels said the headwinds proved that clean energy is not economically viable.
"President Biden's green energy obsession is driving up the cost of living and undermining the American economy," Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, said. "Even billions of dollars in taxpayer-funded loans aren't enough to make his green economic nightmare work."
Kevin Book, managing director of ClearView Energy Partners, said the Inflation Reduction Act that President Biden signed last year to invest $370 billion in clean energy was not enough to overcome inflation and rising interest rates.
But John Larsen, a partner at Rhodium Group, a nonpartisan energy research firm, called economic challenges "a bump in the road" and noted there were bright spots.
A record number of 300,000 electric vehicles were sold in the United States in the third quarter of 2023, about 8 percent of all vehicle sales. Manufacturers are projected to sell one million electric vehicles this year, another record, Mr. Larsen said.
Clean electricity installations also hit a record of nearly 6 gigawatts this year. That's up 13 percent from a year ago, he said. And a report that Rhodium did with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology found that $213 billion had been invested in clean energy manufacturing and deployment in the United States between mid-2022 and mid-2023, a 37 percent increase from the previous year.
"So far on net, 2023 is still looking promising," Mr. Larsen said. "If we're having the same conversation again in a year, that would be troubling."
The Interior Department's announcement highlighted two major solar projects that are now running: a 500-megawatt photovoltaic facility in Riverside County, Calif., that can power 146,000 homes and the nearby Arlington Solar Energy Center that is generating 364 megawatts to power 111,000 homes. Both projects include battery energy storage.
This week the Bureau of Land Management, the agency under the Interior Department that manages 245 million acres of public lands, is scheduled to issue a draft environmental review of a 500-kilovolt transmission project through Utah and Nevada that is slated to receive federal funding. The agency also plans to approve construction of another 500-kilovolt transmission line crossing public lands about 60 miles west of Phoenix. When completed, the line will deliver electricity from a 150-megawatt solar generation facility in Maricopa County, Ariz.
The Bureau of Land Management also is announcing a geothermal lease sale, offering 45 parcels totaling 135,067 acres in Nevada, inviting public comment for seven solar projects in Nevada that are expected to generate 5.3 gigawatts of electricity, and developing draft environmental reviews for a geothermal exploration project in Lyon County, Nev., as well as a 700-megawatt solar photovoltaic and battery energy storage system in Yuman, Ariz.
Ms. Haaland said that since 2021 the Biden administration has approved 46 clean energy projects including six solar farms, 10 geothermal facilities and 20 transmission lines on about 35,000 acres of federal lands. Together, those would produce electricity to power more than 3.5 million homes.
#228
In the city of Duisburg in Germany's industrial heartland is a vast steel complex that is one of Europe's largest polluters. But alongside the mill's furnaces and smelters, technicians have developed a machine that could soon play a vital role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
By using electricity to split water into its two elements, the device, a test model called an electrolyzer, produces hydrogen, a carbon-free gas that could help power mills like the one in Duisburg. If adopted widely, the devices could help clean up heavy industry, such as steel-making, in Germany and elsewhere.
"We are maybe in one of those few very promising industries where Germany has a significant and very promising base," said Werner Ponikwar, chief executive of ThyssenKrupp Nucera, which produces the electrolyzers. The company was spun off from ThyssenKrupp, a German steel giant, in 2023.
The Nucera project was backed by a German government fund worth 700 million euros, or $746 million. Overall, German state and federal governments have earmarked €13.2 billion for investment in about two dozen projects to develop hydrogen.
The concept of hydrogen as a renewable energy source has been around for years, but only within the past decade has the idea of its potential to replace fossil fuels to power heavy industry taken off, leading to increased investment and advances in the technology.
That support is beginning to pay off. The owners of some of the world's most ambitious clean energy projects, including Shell, Europe's largest energy company, and the government of Saudi Arabia, have ordered much larger versions of the two-megawatt electrolyzer in Duisburg, as they look toward a carbon-free industrial era.
Washington earmarked more funding as part of the incentives in President Biden's Inflation Reduction Act, the 2022 law that is offering hundreds of billions of dollars for carbon-free, or green, technology. The Department of Energy awarded Nucera a $50 million grant last month to further develop production of gigawatt-scale electrolyzers for North America.
Such large subsidies reflect the recognition that the technology will not get off the ground without government support, said Christoph Noeres, head of green hydrogen at Nucera, pointing to the multibillion-dollar pledges for green steel and green hydrogen projects from Berlin to Washington.
Analysts point to the ability of hydrogen produced with renewable energy to slash carbon dioxide emissions from heavy industries, including steel-making and long-haul travel by air or sea.
"The only reason we should not believe in hydrogen is if we do not believe in decarbonization altogether," said Bernd Heid, who heads the Platform for Climate Technologies at the consulting firm McKinsey & Company. "There are ups and downs and it's going in waves, but I am confident that we are on a long steady path to decarbonization."
Germany is working to radically reduce the amount of carbon dioxide it emits by 2045. That will mean not only shifting to low-carbon fuels like electricity for heating and transportation, but finding ways to slash emissions from the dirtiest industries, including steel, fertilizer and cement.
ThyssenKrupp plans to use hydrogen to eventually help reduce the 20 million tons of carbon dioxide that its steel mill in Duisburg pumps out each year, or about 2.5 percent of Germany's overall emissions. The company, which traces its roots to the industrial revolution in the 19th century, recently found its existence threatened by competition from China and other factors undercutting its key businesses, including steel-making.
On April 11, ThyssenKrupp announced that it would reduce production capacity at the Duisburg plant, which employs some 13,000 people, by around 20 percent. The company cited high energy prices and the pressure to meet carbon neutrality among reasons for the reduction.
ThyssenKrupp's foray into hydrogen through Nucera, of which it owns just over 50 percent, shows that seeds of economic growth for German industries may be in the rusting landscapes of industrial decay. Among ThyssenKrupp's grab bag of businesses was a world-leading supplier of equipment for making chlorine, a chemical with many uses including in drinking water and swimming pools. As it turns out, new iterations of these machines can be used to make hydrogen.
As interest in using hydrogen as a clean fuel grew, ThyssenKrupp executives figured out that they could secure a place in the renewable energy business. "All those features that, I would say, our industry is striving for we have already in our pockets," Mr. Ponikwar said.
Being linked to a well-known company that has helped build factories and other large facilities around the world has turned out to be a selling point for potential customers. When CF Industries, a large fertilizer maker, decided to invest in an electrolyzer to help make low-emissions ammonia at a plant in Donaldsonville, La., it was ThyssenKrupp's industrial track record that led it to pick Nucera to supply a $100 million unit.
"We believed it provided the lowest risk from a technology standpoint and the highest performance and reliability," said Tony Will, chief executive of CF Industries.
Similar attributes led H2 Green Steel, a start-up based in Stockholm, to pick ThyssenKrupp to supply what may be the largest electrolyzer in Europe for a plant in northern Sweden that will produce emissions-free steel. Very few potential suppliers "have the muscles" to meet the performance targets required, said Maria Persson Gulda, chief technology officer of H2 Green Steel.
Nucera has not entirely escaped the downturn in renewables, which has pounded the shares of other hydrogen-focused companies like ITM Power in Britain and Plug Power in the United States. The company's shares, which were listed at €20 in July, have fallen to about €12.
With higher interest rates and inflation upending the economics of renewable energy projects, analysts have dialed back their forecasts for the adoption of hydrogen. "Everything is more expensive than originally thought," said Hector Arreola, principal analyst for hydrogen at Wood Mackenzie, an energy consulting firm.
Nucera said in February that sales for the quarter ending on Dec. 31 rose 35 percent from a year earlier, to €208 million.
The boost came mainly from delivery of electrolyzers to Saudi Arabia, where the company is supplying what could be the world's largest array of green hydrogen producers as part of an $8.4 billion project in the region of Neom, the ambitious city being built by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. The Saudi government owns 6 percent of Nucera's shares.
The economics of green hydrogen are largely determined by the price tag for the electrolyzers and the cost of the volumes of carbon-free electric power needed to run them. In an effort to retain energy leadership in the coming years, Saudi Arabia has big ambitions as a hydrogen exporter because it can produce cheap solar power in its vast deserts. H2 Green Steel has secured a low-cost contract for hydroelectric power, another green source.
Green hydrogen produced by electrolyzers tends be more expensive than so-called gray hydrogen, which relies on fossil fuels and produces emissions when used in industries like fertilizers and oil refining. An experimental hydrogen index compiled by the European Energy Exchange, a financial market, pegs green hydrogen at about eight times the cost of European natural gas futures.
Mr. Will of CF Industries said the key energy cost of making his green ammonia would be $600 a ton - six times as much as with gray hydrogen. He is lining up customers willing to pay a premium for a green product.
CF Industries said support for making hydrogen under the Biden administration's Inflation Reduction Act could narrow much of the difference.
At the same time, existing industrial players seem likely to play a key role in shifting to cleaner processes using hydrogen and other alternatives.
"You need that skill set that Europe - and especially Germany - has developed over the past hundred years," Mr. Heid said. "Industrial companies have the technology, and they have the skills to scale it up."
#229
Pacific Gas & Electric announced plans on Tuesday to sell a minority stake in its power-generation business, part of its strategy to reduce electricity rates, continue wildfire prevention and further develop clean energy.
The exclusive deal with the global investment firm KKR is part of PG&E's plan to transfer its nonnuclear power generation to a newly formed subsidiary, Pacific Generation. The proposals for the subsidiary and the KKR stake require approval by the California Public Utilities Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
"As we continue to build our systems, we must accelerate the infrastructure investments that will enable us to provide our customers with safe, sustainable, reliable and affordable energy," Carolyn Burke, executive vice president and chief financial officer at PG&E, said in a statement.
KKR operates a global infrastructure business that manages $59 billion in assets, with expertise in the utility and renewable energy industry. PG&E said in a statement that the investment firm's access to capital gave it the ability to take a long-term approach in its strategies.
PG&E had been reshaping its operations and image since a series of wildfires led the utility - the largest in California - to seek bankruptcy protection in 2019 after amassing tens of billions of dollars in liability. PG&E has been investing in wildfire prevention as well as clean energy technologies like utility-scale batteries, work that has contributed to higher customer rates.
The proposed deal is expected to reduce customer rates by more than $100 million over the next 20 years, assuming Pacific Generation has a higher credit rating and lower cost of debt than PG&E, the utility said. It said the potential investment would also enhance PG&E's credit profile, which would benefit customers.
Raj Agrawal, a partner and global head of infrastructure at KKR, said in a statement: "With our longstanding roots in California, deep commitment to sustainable investing and decarbonization, and long-term view on asset management, we feel we are well placed to support Pacific Generation in this new chapter. Should this transaction move forward, we feel confident we can deliver benefits for these facilities, the employees that operate them and the people of California." 
#230 
An influential government body gave what amounts to strong support Thursday to one of the main planks of the new British government's plans to revitalize the economy: a crash program to accelerate efforts for dealing with climate change.
In a report to Parliament, the Climate Change Committee, a statutory body that monitors progress on the reduction of greenhouse gases in Britain, warned that the country was "not on track to hit" a 2030 interim target of reducing emissions by 68 percent compared with 1990 levels. Britain is legally required to achieve net zero emissions by 2050.
"The new government will have to act fast to hit the country's commitments," the committee said.
Speeding up the building of wind farms and solar farms is precisely what the new government of Prime Minister Keir Starmer wants to do. He also hopes to hasten other measures like replacing natural gas boilers in homes with electric-powered heat pumps.
Mr. Starmer is betting that tackling climate change will not only help protect the environment but stimulate what has been a stagnant British economy.
The new government has already signaled its intentions by quickly approving three large solar farms whose developers were seeking a green light.
On July 9, Ed Miliband, the energy and net zero minister, appointed Chris Stark, who had been chief executive of the committee until April, to a new position leading the clean energy push. Mr. Miliband is also changing planning rules that have effectively prevented the building of land-based wind farms in England.
"They have really done some quite good things in their first 10 days," Piers Forster, the committee's interim chairman, told reporters during a news conference, referring to the Labour government.
The committee, which says it is independent, criticized the previous Conservative government, led by Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, for signaling "a slowing of pace" on measures like the shift to electric vehicles and the adoption of heat pumps. The government also "gave inconsistent messages on its commitment" to the steps needed to achieve net zero, the committee said.
Britain has been considered a pacesetter in climate law, having passed in 2008 a climate change act with binding targets. The committee, which was established under that legislation, said Britain had met its previous targets and was about halfway toward the goal of net zero.
The committee also estimated that Britain had achieved a substantial 4 percent reduction of emissions last year, when Mr. Sunak was prime minister. It credited that gain to several factors, including relatively high natural gas prices, which reduced consumption, and greater imports of electricity from France, which produces large amounts of low-carbon nuclear power.
However, it said much of what had been achieved in the past was a result of the phasing out of coal in electric power generation.
"We now need to rapidly reduce oil and gas as well," the committee said.
It made a series of recommendations intended to discourage consumption of fossil fuels and stimulate additional use of electric power, which is forecast to be the main form of clean energy in the future. Among them: cutting electric bills, which would encourage greater use of electricity and the purchase of heat pumps, which Britons have been slow to adopt. The panel suggested removing some items from electric bills, including moving some costs of subsidizing renewable energy to either gas bills or the general government budget.
The committee also recommended tightening various requirements that Mr. Sunak had loosened, including reinstating the date for ending the sales of fossil fuel powered cars in Britain by 2030.
Environmental groups, who had criticized the Conservative Party for jeopardizing what they said had been Britain's leadership role in the effort to curb climate change, found much to applaud.
"This report provides a clear path to victory," Doug Parr, chief scientist of Greenpeace UK, said in a statement. "Now the new government just needs to deliver."
#231
Florida's state government will no longer be required to consider climate change when crafting energy policy under legislation signed Wednesday by Gov. Ron DeSantis, a Republican.
The new law, which passed the Florida Legislature in March and takes effect on July 1, will also prohibit the construction of offshore wind turbines in state waters and will repeal state grant programs that encourage energy conservation and renewable energy.
The legislation also deletes requirements that state agencies use climate-friendly products and purchase fuel-efficient vehicles. And it prevents any municipality from restricting the type of fuel that can be used in an appliance, such as a gas stove.
The legislation, along with two other bills Mr. DeSantis signed on Wednesday, "will keep windmills off our beaches, gas in our tanks, and China out of our state," the governor wrote on the social media platform X. "We're restoring sanity in our approach to energy and rejecting the agenda of the radical green zealots."
Florida is one of the states most vulnerable to the costly and deadly impacts of climate change, which is largely driven by the burning of oil, gas and coal. Multiple scientific studies have shown that the increase of heat-trapping greenhouse gases in the atmosphere has contributed to sea level rise and more flooding in the state's coastal cities.
Last year was the hottest in Florida since 1895, and the waters off its coast heated to 90 degrees during the summer, bleaching corals and scorching marine life. Hurricane Idalia made landfall on Aug. 30 near Keaton Beach and caused an estimated $3.6 billion in damages. The year before, Hurricane Ian was blamed for more than 140 deaths and $109.5 billion in damages in Florida, becoming the costliest hurricane in state history, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
Faced with growing losses from floods and increasingly extreme weather, major insurers are pulling out of the state. Florida homeowners are scrambling to find coverage and, when they do, are paying some of the highest insurance premiums in the country. Thousands have enrolled in the state's high-risk insurance pool of last resort, a fund that Mr. DeSantis has said is "insolvent." Instability in the insurance market threatens Florida real estate and, by extension, the state's economy, experts say.
The governor has supported programs to make communities more resilient to extreme weather.
But Mr. DeSantis, who suspended his bid for the Republican presidential nomination in January, has attacked climate policies as part of a push in the broader partisan culture wars. In a presidential debate last fall, Mr. DeSantis promised that "on Day 1, I'm taking all the Biden regulations, the Green New Deal, ripping it up and throwing it in the trash can where it belongs."
Mr. Biden's climate regulations are not the Green New Deal, a sweeping legislative package, promoted by progressives, that has not passed Congress.
Last year, Mr. DeSantis rejected $346 million that was available in federal funds to help Florida residents make their homes more energy-efficient, despite a request from the State Legislature that Florida accept the money.
Florida is largely powered by natural gas, which provided about 74 percent of the state's total net electricity generation in 2022. Nuclear power supplied about 12 percent, and solar and coal provided the remainder, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Florida has no offshore wind industry.
Brooke Alexander-Goss, the clean energy organizing manager for the Florida chapter of the Sierra Club, said that Mr. DeSantis had "failed" his constituents by signing the bill.
"Allowing this bill to become law jeopardizes the health and safety of all Floridians, further proving that his top priority is to appease large corporations and fossil fuel companies," she said. "We will pay more at the pump and for our insurance premiums, and we will certainly see increases in climate-related disasters and deaths."
Michael B. Gerrard, director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University, said that the deletion of climate change as a priority is largely a symbolic action that does not prohibit lawmakers from considering climate change in state energy policy.
"If they had a differently minded governor in the future, the governor could still say, 'I want to consider climate change,'" Mr. Gerrard said. "It's not banned."
But, he said, the symbolism could still have a political effect. "It's a strong signaling device that could have an effect on private-sector actions, such as investment in clean-energy efforts in the state, and research in the universities," Mr. Gerrard said. "Students and professors who care deeply about climate change are not going to be drawn to Florida, and climate research dollars could flow elsewhere."
#232
As the world absorbs the prospect of an escalating conflict in the Middle East, the potential economic fallout is sowing increasing alarm. The worst fears center on a broadly debilitating development: a shock to the global oil supply.
Such a result, actively contemplated in world capitals, could yield surging prices for gasoline, fuel and other products made with petroleum like plastics, chemicals and fertilizer. It could discourage investment, hiring and business expansion, threatening many economies - particularly in Europe - with the risk of recession. The effects would be potent in nations that depend on imported oil, especially poor countries in Africa.
The possibility of this calamitous outcome has come into focus in recent days as Israel plots its response to the barrage of missiles that Iran unleashed last week. Some scenarios are seen as highly unlikely, yet still conceivable: An Israeli strike on Iranian oil installations might prompt Iran to target refineries in Saudi Arabia or the United Arab Emirates, both major oil producers. Iranian-supported Houthi rebels claimed credit for an attack on Saudi oil installations in 2019. The Trump administration subsequently pinned the blame on Iranian forces.
As it has done before, Iran might also threaten the passage of tankers through the Strait of Hormuz, the critical waterway that is the conduit for oil produced in the Persian Gulf, the source of nearly one-third of the world's oil production. Such a move could entail conflict with American naval ships stationed in the region.
Oil and gas facilities in Iran
That, too, is currently considered to be improbable. But the upheaval in the region in recent months has pushed out the parameters of possibility, rendering imaginable scenarios that were once dismissed as extreme.
As Israel plots its next move, it has other targets besides Iranian oil installations. Iran would have reason for caution in crafting its own retaliation. Broadening the war to its Persian Gulf neighbors would invite a punishing response that could push Iran's own economy - already bleak - to the brink of collapse.
Yet the risks of a broader conflict have heightened in recent days as Israel has expanded its military campaign against its enemies to southern Lebanon, where it has targeted the Iranian-backed militant group Hezbollah. Iran's strikes on Israel have raised the stakes further.
Visions of an intensifying war in the Middle East have added an enormous variable to a global economy already laced with unpredictable forces, from Russia's war in Ukraine, to the trade conflict between the world's two largest economies - the United States and China - and the ever-present risk of provocation from North Korea.
"This is an extraordinarily precarious global situation," said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund who is now a professor at Harvard University. "The world is probably the most unstable that it's been since the Cold War. That's not even mildly an overstatement. It could get worse in a hurry. That would certainly have a big impact on the global economy."
Every conflict in the Middle East holds the potential to jeopardize the world's access to oil. This one appears no different.
Last Thursday, after President Biden said his administration was "discussing" the possibility of supporting an Israeli strike on Iran's oil facilities, oil prices spiked by more than 4 percent. The price of Brent crude, the international benchmark, breached $77 a barrel, up from about $71 a barrel before Iran unleashed missiles toward Israel.
The following day, Mr. Biden sought to alleviate concerns, telling reporters that the Israelis "should be thinking about other alternatives than striking oil fields."
Experts assert that Israel's efforts to limit the threat from Iran would be better served by targeting its military capabilities, perhaps firing on its elite Quds Force, which is widely unpopular within Iranian society.
Even if Israel does attack Iran's oil production, the ramifications of that alone would be minimal for the global economy, analysts say. Iran is a major oil producer, pumping out nearly four million barrels a day, or about 4 percent of the global total, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. But other Persian Gulf states like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates could expand production to make up that volume, easing pressures on international prices, experts say.
A similar scenario played out five years ago, after a drone assault on oil installations in Saudi Arabia shut down roughly half the nation's production. Oil prices surged by a fifth, but then quickly dropped as Saudi Arabia released stocks from its reserves.
"We have precedent for that kind of supply shock," said Eli Berman, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, and a research director at the University of California Institute on Conflict and Cooperation. "That attack did not result in a regional tit for tat."
The key question is how Israel will respond to the Iranian missile attack, and what comes after. Iran appears to have strengthened ties with its Persian Gulf neighbors over the last year, diminishing the chance that it would pursue a broader regional conflict. But if that analysis proves wrong and Iran strikes refineries in the region or disrupts shipping, the world could be in for a considerable shock.
In a regional war involving Israel and Iran, oil prices would spike to $130 a barrel and the global economy would suffer a hit of 0.4 percent, according to an analysis by Oxford Economics.
That scenario would hit the global economy with a new source of rising prices just as central banks from the United States to Europe have been declaring victory over inflation in lowering interest rates. Lower rates spell easier credit terms for businesses and consumers, stoking anticipation of a spur to investing, hiring, home-buying and economic growth.
An oil shock could reverse that momentum. Oil prices are not merely a key metric in markets, but an elemental force influencing economic activity, policymaking and sentiments in virtually every nation. They largely determine the price of gasoline, which flashes from signs at gas stations, serving as a crude encapsulation of consumer confidence and economic well-being.
Unlike in the early 1970s, when concerted action by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries - the international cartel of oil exporters - choked off supply and sent prices soaring, the world today is far less susceptible to such shocks.
The United States has swelled into the leading oil producer, owing to its aggressive development of shale oil. Some economies have moved aggressively to expand production of wind, solar, geothermal and other renewable sources of energy, reducing dependence on oil.
The trouble is that global demand for energy has grown even faster, reinforcing the status of oil as a crucial commodity.
From 1971 to 2010, the share of the world's total energy stocks made up by oil dropped to 31 percent from 44 percent, according to the International Energy Agency. But in the years since, that share has remained steady, even as renewable sources have increased - the result of increased demand from fast-growing developing economies like India, Indonesia and Brazil.
An oil supply crisis would reinforce the imperative for nations to diminish dependence on fossil fuels by expanding supplies of renewable energy. But that would not address the immediate economic threat.
The most wrenching consequence of an oil supply shock would be seen in lower-income countries contending with debt crises, including Zambia, Mozambique, Tanzania and Angola. Governments have slashed spending on public health, education and other services to avoid defaulting on debts. Higher costs for importing oil would worsen that problem.
Pressure would also fall on China, which purchases more than 90 percent of Iran oil exports and depends on imports for roughly three-fourths of its oil consumption.
The Chinese government has cushioned itself against risks of disruption by aggressively increasing the use of electric vehicles and by adding to its oil reserves. Still, a higher energy bill would present an extra challenge as Chinese authorities grapple with worries over huge losses in real estate and weakening economic growth.
The United States may be best positioned to absorb a shock. American companies engaged in fossil fuel production would benefit from a hit to the global supply of oil, reaping gains from higher prices. Yet the impact of slower global economic growth would hinder other American businesses, especially those that export.
Europe appears especially vulnerable to disruption. The continent has long relied on low-priced Russian energy. That supply was crimped after Russia invaded Ukraine, bringing international condemnation and sanctions. The Russian leader, Vladimir V. Putin, severely restricted the shipment of energy to Europe, forcing many countries to seek alternatives while limiting consumption. A sudden jolt in the price of oil would present another crisis.
"What you would end up with in Europe is stagflation," said Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, using a term coined in the 1970s to describe a persistent combination of rising prices and slower growth. "You likely get a recession and high inflation at the same time."
The clearest beneficiary of higher oil prices would be Russia, Mr. Kirkegaard added, supplying Mr. Putin with greater wherewithal to redouble his military assault on Ukraine.
Greater oil revenues would also position Russia to lavish more aid on a key Middle Eastern ally: Iran. The Iranian government has looked to Mr. Putin to help provide the last elements needed to achieve the capability to produce nuclear weapons.
That reality, Mr. Kirkegaard suggested, may limit Israel's willingness to risk greater escalation of the conflict. If Israel hits Iran hard enough to provoke an Iranian strike aimed at damaging regional energy production, that would increase the price of oil, effectively handing more money to Mr. Putin.
And that would increase the risk of a nuclear-armed Iran.
"If you're Israel, why help the country that would help Iran reach the nuclear threshold?" Mr. Kirkegaard asked.
#233
President Biden on Tuesday celebrated his record overseeing historic action to fight climate change and warned that the Republican trying to succeed him, Donald J. Trump, would unwind those accomplishments and condemn "future generations to a more dangerous world."
The president delivered remarks to an adoring crowd at the Bloomberg Global Business Forum event during New York Climate Week that featured the actress Jane Fonda as well as Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York.
Hours after addressing the United Nations General Assembly, Mr. Biden appeared at the Bloomberg event and took what amounted to a victory lap. He boasted that the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, which is plowing more than $370 billion in tax rebates and subsidies into wind and solar energy, batteries and electric vehicles, was the largest climate investment "in the history of the world."
The president credited the law with reopening shuttered factories and creating more than 300,000 jobs, but also with fundamentally changing the conversation about climate change from one of planetary doom to one of economic opportunity. He also made a point of linking his policies to Vice President Kamala Harris, the Democratic presidential nominee.
"Kamala and I have pursued an ambitious climate policy focused on growth," Mr. Biden said. "This is a new formula on climate. Creating jobs and reducing pollution," he said.
Ms. Harris has not detailed how she would address climate change. Her campaign website highlights the climate law and pledges to "unite Americans to tackle the climate crisis as she builds on this historic work."
The president did not refer by name to Mr. Trump, the former Republican president who is running to retake the White House. Instead, he referred to him as "my predecessor," warning that his policies would cause economic devastation.
In response, Karoline Leavitt, Mr. Trump's campaign spokeswoman said, "Does anybody care what Joe Biden has to say anymore?"
Mr. Trump has promised to dismantle Mr. Biden's climate policies and promote more development of fossil fuels, the burning of which is driving climate change. Mr. Trump has said his administration would "drill, baby, drill" and "develop the liquid gold that is right under our feet."
Mr. Trump has railed against renewable energy, particularly windmills, by falsely suggesting they harm whales and pose health hazards.
Mr. Biden took a swipe at that misinformation, to the delight of the crowd. "By the way," Mr. Biden said in a sotto voce remark, "windmills do not cause cancer."
For many world leaders in New York this week, the November election loomed over discussions. Mr. Trump has also pledged to withdraw the United States from the Paris agreement on climate change, as he did during his first term. Mr. Biden has rejoined the treaty.
Ms. Harris, if elected, is expected to continue global engagement on climate and strengthen U.S. targets for cutting greenhouse gas emissions.
Mr. Biden described cutting fossil fuel pollution as a moral imperative. He spoke of touring communities ravaged by climate-fueled wildfires, hurricanes and floods and added that he had seen "more acreage burn to the ground than the entire state of Maryland - just wildfires."
He described leaders of other countries, including Kenya, the United Arab Emirates, Australia, India and Japan, as eager to expand investments in clean energy and made the case that the world needed the United States to realize a global transition away from fossil fuels.
"If we don't lead who the hell leads?" Mr. Biden asked. "Who fills the vacuum?"
#234
In a few short months, diplomats from nearly all the world's countries will descend on Azerbaijan, a small petrostate on the Caspian Sea, nestled between Russia and Iran, to wrangle over how best to avoid the ever-growing dangers of climate change.
It's an unlikely place for such talk: It is out of the way, under authoritarian rule and, crucially, hyper-dependent on fossil fuels. Azerbaijan is hosting the annual climate summit, called COP29, only by dint of a quirky United Nations selection process that left it as the last option on the table.
Mukhtar Babayev, an amiable midlevel bureaucrat put in charge of the talks, scarcely anticipated filling such a high-stakes role. "We are not famous as a green transition ideas developer," he said last week in a wide-ranging interview in the Azerbaijani countryside. "Yes, for us it is new."
Mr. Babayev, 56, and his team are tasked with balancing nearly impossibly divergent interests, from dominant petrostates like Saudi Arabia to sinking island? states like Vanuatu. It's a seemingly vertical learning curve for officials who acknowledge their inexperience in global climate politics.
They also acknowledge that they are under pressure from some people in their own country, who fear the global energy transition away from fossil fuels. Nearly all of Azerbaijan's exports are oil and gas. Mr. Babayev himself spent most of his career rising through the middle ranks of the state oil company.
And despite broad agreement that the world must stop burning fossil fuels as quickly as possible, Mr. Babayev offered a defense of those who produce them, particularly natural gas, which has transformed his country into a bigger player on the geopolitical stage in recent years as Europe scrambled to find replacements for Russian supplies.
Compared to oil and coal, he said, "Gas is a less-harm-to-nature energy resource." He also noted, "If the European countries are against gas, then why do they request more from Azerbaijan? Why does Commissioner Simson come to Baku three, four times in a year?" he said, referring to Kadri Simson, the European Union energy commissioner.
In a way, Azerbaijan, despite lacking climate bona fides, provides one of the starkest backdrops imaginable for a climate conference. Within its borders the causes and effects of climate change are on vivid display and the painful trade-offs needed to fight it are acutely felt.
As alarm over global warming soars amid record-breaking heat and increasingly erratic weather, Azerbaijan has barely begun the process of replacing oil and gas. It has argued, as many less developed nations have, that rich nations must cough up billions of dollars to help them transition their economies, given that the world's wealthier countries are responsible, in historical terms, for the majority of greenhouse gas emissions.
The environmental damage wrought by fossil fuel extraction will be in plain view from the stadium in the capital, Baku, where the talks will be held.
Across a lake reeking of sulfur, creaking rigs excrete pools of stagnant oil. Day and night, a refinery next door burns off methane, one of the most potent greenhouse gases.
And just a few miles offshore in the Caspian Sea, scores of drilling platforms form archipelagos of rust.
The often-contradictory policies of climate-conscious Western countries are palpable, too. Even as Europe in recent years barred its banks from financing fossil fuels, it gobbled up Azerbaijani gas and now hopes others will fund the expansion of the pipelines.
Similarly, the United States has called on the world to move more quickly to fight climate change, even as it produces and exports more oil and gas than ever.
"It's easy for Azerbaijan today to stay a fossil-fuel-producing country," Mr. Babayev said. He said other Azerbaijani officials, with a hint of worry, ask him, "'Why do you need to involve this pressure from all sides?'"
The country of 10 million people landed COP29 practically by coincidence. According to the United Nations agency that sponsors the annual climate summit, host countries are chosen on a rotating cycle, and this time it was the turn for a nation in Eastern Europe or the Caucasus. But because the location must be agreed upon by consensus, Russia was able to veto most candidates, seeing them as hostile to its invasion of Ukraine.
Azerbaijan, eventually, was the only country left.
The fact that Azerbaijan is hosting COP29 has caused jitters for some in the climate activism community. First off, Russia's obstructionism left Azerbaijan with little time to prepare. But more worryingly, it is the second year in a row that a petrostate has hosted the talks.
Last year's summit in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, was presided over by Sultan al Jaber, who heads the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company. Mr. al Jaber was able to push through a final document from the meeting that saw all countries pledge to move away from fossil fuel use by midcentury.
But it also alluded to the role of gas as a "transitional fuel" even as climate scientists warned that the world can't afford to invest in new gas production if it is serious about limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels. That target, researchers say, is necessary to avoid a cascade of catastrophic changes to Earth's natural systems.
Gas, which burns cleaner than coal or oil but consists largely of methane, which can leak and cause short-term spikes in the greenhouse effect, has been promoted by many countries as a stopgap energy source as economies adapt to running on renewables and petrostates find other exports to rely on.
While speaking, Mr. Babayev often deferred to the wisdom of Azerbaijan's strongman president, Ilham Aliyev, who has run the country since taking over from his father, Heydar Aliyev, in 2003. Since Azerbaijan gained independence with the Soviet Union's dissolution, the Aliyev family has consolidated power, wealth and support, buoyed by fossil fuel revenue. Baku now gleams with glassy skyscrapers owned by his family and its associates.
Across the region, Mr. Babayev said, you now see "roads, electricity provided to 100 percent of the population; gas and water to almost every home."
"Now the government can think, 'OK, oil and gas is good, but let's look to the future,'" he said.
The future, Mr. Aliyev's government has said, is investment in renewable energy at home coupled with increased gas exports.
Much of the renewable energy development will take place in territories Azerbaijan wrested from neighboring Armenia in a war that flared off and on for 30 years and came to a sudden and bloody conclusion last September. Mr. Aliyev has stated his desire to build "green liberated zones" in those precincts.
Like other petrostates, Azerbaijan's pledges to reduce its greenhouse gas footprint rely not just on renewables, but also on capturing and storing emissions from fossil fuel production. The technology to do that is nascent and largely unproven.
Azerbaijan's state oil company, SOCAR, along with companies that make up just under half of global oil production, signed a charter at last year's climate summit in Dubai to invest in the technology.
"No matter who says what, natural gas will remain a strategic energy source for decades to come. And with the ability to capture and store their carbon emissions, that becomes even more the case," said Afgan Isayev, one of SOCAR's vice presidents, in an interview. "These improvements, they are a license to operate."
Mr. Babayev and his team will be up against huge expectations at the summit meeting in November. The world is still on course for well over 2 degrees Celsius of warming.
And this year, COP29 will take place right after the United States election. Former President Donald J. Trump has promised to roll back laws that promote clean energy and to ramp up fossil fuel drilling.
The possibility of his victory looms over the summit's preparations. When Mr. Trump was president from 2016 to 2020, he pulled the United States out of the main United Nations sponsored pact to fight climate change.
For Azerbaijan and Mr. Babayev, COP29 also presents a chance to cement a transformation decades in the making, one that cost his country thousands of lives in war and years of underdevelopment. He's still just a bit in shock that this role is his.
"If you ask me, Mukhtar Babayev, minister of ecology, was I ready to move this agenda, to be so popular? No. I don't like it," he said. "But I understand that we have to do it."
#235
A year and a half after President Biden signed into law a sweeping bill to tackle climate change, sales of electric vehicles have largely boomed in line with expectations, according to a new analysis by three groups tracking the impact of the law.
But problems with supply chains, obtaining permits and overcoming local opposition have bogged down one of the climate law's other big goals: generating vastly more electricity from wind, solar and other nonpolluting sources. Even though the United States added record amounts of renewable power and batteries last year, that rapid growth fell short of the levels needed to meet the country's goals for slashing the emissions that are rapidly heating the planet, the analysis said.
When the law, known as the Inflation Reduction Act, was approved in 2022, analysts predicted that it would help cut America's greenhouse gas emissions roughly 40 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. The measure contains hundreds of billions of dollars in tax credits and spending for clean energy technologies like wind turbines, solar panels, batteries, electric vehicles and hydrogen fuels.
The law is meeting expectations in some areas and falling short in others, according to the new assessment by researchers from the Princeton-led REPEAT project, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research, the research firm Rhodium Group, and Energy Innovation, a nonprofit organization."
Electric vehicle sales are largely on track to help fulfill the law's projected emissions reductions after increasing more than 50 percent over the past year. A record 9.2 percent of all new cars sold in the United States in 2023 were either fully electric or plug-in hybrid models, which was on the high end of what analysts had predicted would happen after the law passed.
It is less certain that automakers will repeat that torrid sales growth this year. Many of the most enthusiastic early adopters have already bought plug-in vehicles, while potential buyers are put off by high sticker prices and the relative scarcity of charging stations. Companies like Tesla are already warning that sales growth will probably slow in the near term.
Still, if electric vehicle sales only rise between 30 and 40 percent in 2024, a noticeable slowdown from last year, that would be in line with the law's emissions targets, the analysis found.
The picture for renewable power is mixed, however. Last year, the United States added a record 32.3 gigawatts of electric capacity to the grid from solar panels, wind turbines and batteries. In many parts of the country, the tax credits provided by the law are making renewable sources of electricity cheaper to build than more polluting sources like coal or natural gas.
But when the Inflation Reduction Act passed, analysts had projected that the United States would add an average of 46 to 79 gigawatts of carbon-free electricity to the grid annually in 2023 and 2024. There are projects pending this year that would deliver about 60 gigawatts but not all of them are expected to be completed on time, the analysis said. That means the country will be behind schedule in deploying new clean electricity sources.
The biggest obstacles facing renewable electricity are logistical, the report said. Wind and solar projects are facing lengthy waits to connect to the nation's clogged electric grids, and it can take a decade or more to get permits for new high-voltage transmission lines and build them. In many parts of the country, new wind or solar farms are facing opposition from local residents. Plans for offshore wind farms have been bogged down by snarled supply chains and shipping restrictions.
These obstacles could pose an even bigger challenge over time. To meet the law's expected emissions reductions, the nation would need to add roughly 70 to 126 gigawatts of renewable electricity capacity each year between 2025 and 2030 - a staggering increase from today's levels, the analysis found. Without major changes to permitting and transmission, neither of which were addressed by the Inflation Reduction Act, those numbers could prove unattainable.
"Tackling these non-cost barriers will be critical," the analysis says, for the law "to achieve its full clean energy deployment and emissions reduction potential."
Separately, the Inflation Reduction Act also provided hefty tax credits to companies that manufacture batteries, solar panels, wind turbines and other technologies in the United States rather than abroad. That provision has proved popular: Companies invested $44 billion last year in domestic clean-energy manufacturing, with more planned in the years ahead.
Other aspects of the law will take longer to have an impact. There are tax credits for businesses that build advanced nuclear reactors or create hydrogen fuels using renewable electricity or add devices to factories that capture carbon dioxide emissions and bury them underground. While multiple companies are developing such projects in the United States, none have been built yet.
#236
West Texas, from the oil rigs of the Permian Basin to the wind turbines twirling above the High Plains, has long been a magnet for companies seeking fortunes in energy.
Now, those arid ranch lands are offering a new moneymaking opportunity: data centers.
Lancium, an energy and data center management firm setting up shop in Fort Stockton and Abilene, is one of many companies around the country betting that building data centers close to generating sites will allow them to tap into underused clean power.
"It's a land grab," said Lancium's president, Ali Fenn.
In the past, companies built data centers close to internet users, to better meet consumer requests, like streaming a show on Netflix or playing a video game hosted in the cloud. But the growth of artificial intelligence requires huge data centers to train the evolving large-language models, making proximity to users less necessary.
But as more of these sites start to pop up across the United States, there are new questions on whether they can meet the demand while still operating sustainably. The carbon footprint from the construction of the centers and the racks of expensive computer equipment is substantial in itself, and their power needs have grown considerably.
Just a decade ago, data centers drew 10 megawatts of power, but 100 megawatts is common today. The Uptime Institute, an industry advisory group, has identified 10 supersize cloud computing campuses across North America with an average size of 621 megawatts.
This growth in electricity demand comes as manufacturing in the United States is the highest in the past half-century, and the power grid is becoming increasingly strained.
The Uptime Institute predicted in a recent report that the sector's myriad net-zero goals, which are self-imposed benchmarks, would become much harder to meet in the face of this demand and that backtracking could become common.
"This is not just about data centers," said Mark Dyson, a managing director at RMI, a nonprofit organization focused on sustainability. "Data centers are a practice round for a much bigger wave of load growth that we are already seeing and are going to continue seeing in this country coming from electrification of industry, vehicles and buildings."
The data center industry has embraced more sustainable solutions in recent years, becoming a significant investor in renewable power at the corporate level. Sites that leased wind and solar capacity jumped 50 percent year over year as of early 2023, to more than 40 gigawatts, capacity that continues to grow. Still, demand outpaces those investments. And the need for more processing power is backing up the interconnection queue and creating stopgap solutions.
Power-hungry data centers in full force further complicate the balance. Data centers in the construction pipeline would, when complete, use as much power annually as the San Francisco metro area, according to a report released on Wednesday by the real estate services company JLL. Most sites coming online this year are already leased; in popular markets, significant space will not open up for at least two years.
"You have to get as many gigawatts live as you possibly can, as fast as you can," Ms. Fenn of Lancium said. "People are going to cobble that together in whatever way they can."
That has quickly expanded development beyond the established first- and second-tier markets, such as Northern Virginia, Dallas and Silicon Valley.
Competition is growing in parts of the country offering cheap land and available power. Amazon, for instance, announced last month that it was planning a $10 billion project in Mississippi, the state's largest economic development project, which includes data centers and solar generating sites.
"Anybody who has any significant source of power has now become a new data center market," said Jim Kerrigan, managing principal of North American Data Centers, an industry consultancy.
A.I. is only a small percentage of the global data center footprint. The Uptime Institute predicts A.I. will skyrocket to 10 percent of the sector's global power use by 2025, from 2 percent today.
"They have been building at a breakneck pace with so many other kinds of drivers for demand," said Andy Lawrence, executive director of research at the institute. "A.I.'s kind of the froth on top."
Last year, construction of data centers was up 25 percent, according to the real estate firm CBRE. And Nvidia, which supplies most of the high-tech chips powering this technology, last week reported record profit in data center sales, with 2023 revenue hitting $47.5 billion, a 217 percent jump from the year before.
The nation's energy grids cannot handle that kind of demand, said Christopher Wellise, vice president of sustainability at Equinix, a global data center operator. "Technology is moving faster than our infrastructure has evolved," he said.
On top of that, the transition toward electrification and renewable power has created new challenges. Orders for the large transformers needed to deliver power have a three-year backlog, and even the diesel generators that provide backup power can take nearly two years to arrive.
Developers are focusing on squeezing additional efficiency out of their operations. Meta has teamed up with a Texas battery storage provider to better use the state's wind and solar resources. Google signed a deal with Fervo, a company developing utility-scale geothermal resources.
Equinix, which operates 260 data centers across the globe, installed fuel cells from Bloom Energy to help provide backup power to many of its data centers. The company is also reducing emissions by bringing more renewable energy to the grid, such as through power purchase agreements, and has squeezed 5 percent more efficiency out of its operations in the past year, Mr. Wellise said. Design firms like Gensler have been experimenting with new designs that feature mass timber to cut down on the embodied carbon of data centers.
And A.I. itself can help: At a data center in Frankfurt, Equinix has used the technology to moderate cooling loads and adjust energy use in concert with changing weather, making a data center 9 percent more efficient.
Niklas Sundberg, a sustainable IT expert and chief digital officer at Kuehne + Nagel, a transport and logistics company based in Switzerland, said the industry would need to focus on investing in renewable generating capacity.
Some sites have sought to install on-site gas power plants to make up for shortfalls in the grid. It may be cleaner than existing power, but it adds to the industry's substantial carbon footprint.
And lawmakers have proposed more transparency and action. The Senate introduced a proposal in early February to assess A.I.'s environmental impact. Lawmakers in Northern Virginia, which is known as Data Center Alley, have pushed to mandate sustainability goals for data centers.
Suhas Subramanyam, a Virginia state senator, proposed a number of rules, including one that would require data centers to get at least 90 percent of their power from renewable sources to qualify for subsidies. "I don't want to stick my kids in a situation where, in 20 years, they have to pay some of the bills for things that we thought were a good idea and turned out not to be," he said.
#237
Texas has invested more in wind and solar power than any other state in recent years, but during the current cold snap, natural gas has played a key role in keeping the lights on.
During the past few days, renewable energy was a small but meaningful part of the energy mix that delivered electricity to Texans. But starting on Sunday, as wind chills dipped below 0 degrees Fahrenheit in some Texas cities and demand surged, especially in morning hours when residents awakened, the grid leaned heavily on gas, according to data from the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, the grid operator.
As the mercury has dropped, many Texans have been thinking about the winter storm of 2021, when power failures were blamed for some 240 deaths. Disinformation spread back then, wrongly blaming wind energy. While some wind turbines froze in 2021 and coal plants were knocked offline, it was frozen natural gas plants that were the main problem. Power was out for days in some areas.
Since then, state officials have weatherized pipes and gas equipment and also shored up wind turbines and other equipment. Grid operators have also issued calls for conservation during those crucial morning hours. All of that led them to project confidence that the grid would hold up this week.
In areas of Texas where temperatures dipped the lowest, it has been frigid but sunny. Solar power performed well and, overall, provided a small share of total electricity generated. In Texas, winds die down in winter and aren't expected to contribute as much to the energy mix as in the summer, energy experts say. On Monday, for instance, wind at its highest-performing level of the day was about 28 percent of the energy mix, compared with gas at about 48 percent. In the early morning hours, however, wind was barely more than 7 percent.
"We still rely a lot on natural gas," said David Spence, a professor of law and regulation at the University of Texas at Austin.
Texas is a major oil and gas state, but is also a national leader in renewables. Two years ago, the state generated 26 percent of all wind-sourced electricity in the United States, leading the nation for the 17th year in a row, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Wind power first surpassed nuclear energy in Texas in 2014 and passed coal power in 2020.
In 2022, Texas installed nearly as much new energy capacity from wind alone as California did for wind, solar and battery storage combined, said William Boyd, a professor of environmental law at the University of California, Los Angeles. Last year, solar made up 7 percent of the state grid's power mix, up from nearly nothing five years before.
"We can look at Texas as a red state that may have a lot of people in power who are climate deniers," Mr. Boyd said. "But if you look at the state's investments in clean energy, Texas dominates."
The development of renewable energy in Texas, a heavily Republican state with a Republican governor who is a strong proponent of fossil fuels, has little to do with politics and is largely because of the state's relatively few regulatory barriers to entry for new power plants, several energy experts said.
Renewable energy has become so prominent in Texas that some lawmakers worry it threatens fossil fuels. Last year, the State Legislature pushed back by passing measures designed to encourage the construction of gas-fueled power plants and to increase costs for rural renewable projects that seek to connect to the grid.
"Natural gas is critical and essential to back up wind and solar," said Thomas J. Pyle, president of the Institute for Energy Research, a research group that supports fossil fuels. "If it's not going to be coal, people have to look at other sources of always-on, always-available electricity."
Other Republican-leaning states also are big generators of renewable energy, largely because of a lack of regulatory barriers, but geography also plays a role. States in the middle of the country tend to be windy and have ample space for the open land required by solar farms.
In Iowa, 62 percent of the state's total electricity net generation in 2022 came from wind, the largest wind power share of any state.
Even oil-producing Oklahoma ranked third in the nation in 2022 in electricity generation from wind. All renewable resources combined accounted for 47 percent of Oklahoma's electricity generation in 2022, up from about 10 percent in 2011.
While some experts say natural gas acts as insurance for renewables, others point out that solar and wind offer their own role in reducing the amount of gas needed to power through brutal weather. Last summer, for instance, wind and solar energy propped up Texas during an intense heat wave.
"Gas plants struggle to perform in extreme heat and extreme cold, which is not great under climate change," said Leah Stokes, associate professor in the political science department at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
#238
Through his office window, the head of Brazil's state-run oil company looked out at the cluttered landscape of Rio de Janeiro. Looking back at him, across the city's run-down high-rises, was the looming statue of Christ the Redeemer. Hawks circled an overflowing trash heap. Plumes of smoke rose from a blaze in a hillside shantytown.
His company, Petrobras, is planning such a rapid increase in oil production that it could become the world's third-largest producer by 2030, a transformation he believes could play a role in lessening the poverty dotting his vista. This, even as his country positions itself as a leader in the fight against climate change which, of course, is primarily driven by the burning of oil and other fossil fuels.
Petrobras already pumps about as much crude oil per year as ExxonMobil, according to Rystad Energy, a market research firm. Over the next few years, it is projected to hurtle past the national oil companies of China, Russia and Kuwait, leaving only Saudi Arabia's and Iran's pumping more than Petrobras by 2030.
It's an enormous predicament for Brazil's president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, better known simply as Lula, who has fashioned himself as the pre-eminent world leader on climate issues. By all accounts, Mr. Lula has come around in recent years to believing climate change is a major driver of poverty and inequality, which he has spent his decades-long political career vowing to eradicate.
Since being elected in 2022, Mr. Lula has drastically reduced deforestation in the Amazon and overseen a sizable build-out of renewable energy. But he will also preside over Petrobras' oil boom and a period of growing gas imports, both of which will facilitate Brazil growing hunger for cheap flights, meatier diets and air-conditioned homes.
However contradictory that might seem, it's only fair, said Jean Paul Prates, the Petrobras chief executive, perched up high in his company's gleaming headquarters.
"We will not give up that prerogative," he said, "because others are not doing their own sacrifice as well."
It's an argument that bedevils global efforts to reduce reliance on fossil fuels. Industrialized countries like the United States, which became economic superpowers by emitting huge amounts of greenhouse gases, are still the world's biggest per capita producers and consumers of fossil fuels.
And if they won't stop, why should Brazil?
Mr. Lula's lead adviser on climate change, Ana Toni, a longtime director of various nonprofit groups, said that, ideally, Petrobras would be scaling back on oil and investing more heavily in renewables, essentially transforming itself into a new kind of company. But she echoed Mr. Prates and said that until the whole world moved together, with the richest leading the way, developing countries would balk at making their own sacrifices.
Like many in Brazil, Ms. Toni pointed to the cautionary example of neighboring Colombia, whose president embarked on an ambitious plan, the first for any oil-producing country, to phase out its production of the fossil fuel.
"Colombia's brave decision is being taken by the market as creating economic insecurity. It's really the worst-case scenario," she said. "I wish countries richer than ours would have a real conversation about taking such steps, and not leave it to us vulnerable ones."
That tension has dominated years of climate negotiations and will once again be front and center at this year's United Nations-sponsored summit being held in November in Azerbaijan. There, negotiators from nearly all the world's nations are hoping to tackle the thorny issue of how richer countries can channel more money toward poorer ones to help them both adopt cleaner energy sources as well as adapt to climate change's effects.
After Azerbaijan, the next host of the U.N. climate summit will be Brazil itself. The summit will be in Belém, a city at the edge of the Amazon, near a place where Petrobras had proposed exploring for oil. But in one of the few instances of Brazil's government curtailing the oil industry, the idea was blocked. Mr. Prates said Petrobras was appealing the decision.
Meanwhile, Petrobras plans to spend north of $7 billion over the next five years on exploration of potential offshore drilling sites along other stretches of Brazil's coast to augment its already growing production.
Petrobras, like many other oil and gas companies, internally projects that demand for its products will remain stubbornly high. Accordingly, the company operates on a starkly different set of assumptions than those envisioned by the International Energy Agency and others who say demand for oil has either already peaked or is close to doing so.
That leaves countries like Brazil in a kind of do-everything gray area, said Mercedes Bustamante, a professor and ecologist at the University of Brasília, and a member of the Climate Crisis Advisory Group, an independent group of scientists.
Brazil is growing both renewables and fossil fuels. This year it joined OPEC, the global oil cartel, as an observer, even as next year it plans to host the U.N.'s global climate negotiations. By 2030 it will be the world's fifth-biggest oil producer, according to Rystad's data.
This dynamic is reflected, too, in forests, Ms. Bustamante said. Land clearing in the Amazon has been curtailed, but it is simultaneously rising in the Cerrado, a vast savanna that covers much of central Brazil.
"Having it both ways is very much part of Brazil's policy DNA," said Oliver Stuenkel, professor at the School of International Relations at Fundação Getulio Vargas in São Paulo. "We will be a green superpower, yes, but we're not going to take unnecessary risks. That means preparing for a world in which oil will play an important role for a long time and the transition takes longer than expected."
Mr. Prates said he spoke with Mr. Lula every two weeks and was pushing him to understand that a transition away from fossil fuels needs to be "wisely slow."
"That means not slow because we don't want to do transition, but slow because we need to correspond to expectations of the market for oil, gas and its derivatives," he said. "Petrobras will go up to the end of the last drop of oil, just as Saudi Arabia or the Emirates will do the same."
Petrobras has some serious advantages in the long run, even if oil demand is peaking. Oil from Brazil's offshore sites near Rio and São Paulo costs roughly $35 per barrel to produce, well below the international benchmark of $90. That is partly because it is less energy intensive to produce, which makes it marginally cleaner and more desirable for some emissions-conscious buyers.
Mr. Lula's government also faces a polarized electorate that generally, according to recent surveys, doesn't consider climate change a voting issue. "Half the population doesn't have access to treated sewage," Mr. Stuenkel said. "Brazil has a very different set of public demands than richer countries. There's a very long way to go in convincing Brazilian voters that there needs to be a painful reorganization of society to stave off climate change."
Nevertheless, Mr. Lula does deeply care, said Ms. Toni, his climate adviser.
The world is relying on Brazil for leadership on this issue, and it has made ambitious pledges to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. Those pledges are more ambitious, she made sure to note, than those of the United States or many other countries that have higher standards of living than Brazil.
It as a good sign, she thinks, that Brazil is under pressure to rethink its oil expansion. To her, it means they've been so successful on the deforestation front that people are holding them to a higher standard.
But that's all for naught if the biggest players don't mirror that ambition. "Even if Brazil stops producing oil tomorrow," she said. "the U.S., Russia and others will not stop."
#239
During the scorching summer of 2023, the Texas energy grid wobbled as surging demand for electricity threatened to exceed supply. Several times, officials called on residents to conserve energy to avoid a grid failure.
This year it turned out much better - thanks in large part to more renewable energy.
The electrical grid in Texas has breezed through a summer in which, despite milder temperatures, the state again reached record levels of energy demand. It did so largely thanks to the substantial expansion of new solar farms.
And the grid held strong even during the critical early evening hours - when the sun goes down and the nighttime winds have yet to pick up - with the help of an even newer source of energy in Texas and around the country: batteries.
The federal government expects the amount of battery storage capacity across the country, almost nonexistent five years ago, to nearly double by the end of the year. Texas, which has already surpassed California in the amount of power coming from large-scale solar farms, was expected to gain on its West Coast rival in battery storage as well.
The swift growth of battery storage as a source of power for the electric grid, along with the continued expansion of large-scale solar farms, could not have come at a better time. Texas, like many other states, is facing a surge in its power needs from data centers, new manufacturing plants, cryptocurrency mines, growing residential demand and increasingly intense summer heat. Officials estimate that Texas, already the nation's largest electricity consumer, could roughly double its demand in just a few years.
"Every state is going to go through this. Texas just happens to be the farthest along because we are growing our energy usage first," said Michael Lee, the chief executive of Octopus Energy U.S., a subsidiary of the British electricity provider. "We're seeing this in every other state, and all over the world."
Renewable energy sources have taken off in Texas, the nation's premier oil-and-gas state, in large part because of the relatively easy process for connecting to the state's grid and its mostly deregulated market for energy, company leaders and energy experts said.
But some of those same advantages have also come under scrutiny since the grid's catastrophic failure during a prolonged winter freeze that killed hundreds in the state in 2021.
Gov. Greg Abbott took steps to try to prevent a similar failure from happening again. Since then, leaders in the Texas Capitol, along with energy companies of all types, have been debating how to ensure there is always enough energy supply, while also preserving the state's relatively free market.
Since the winter storm, Mr. Abbott, and the state's lieutenant governor, Dan Patrick, have pushed for the construction of new gas-fired power plants, arguing that predictable, "dispatchable" energy is more reliable in an emergency than wind and solar.
In the energy market in Texas, mostly deregulated in the 2000s, generators are paid, with some exceptions, only for the energy they actually provide to the grid, rather than for having capacity to do so in the future. And in contrast to other states, the main electricity grid in Texas is contained entirely within the state.
In a somewhat unlikely turn, renewable energy companies have been arguing for keeping the market open and less regulated, while Republican leaders have pushed for increasing government intervention, including incentives to build additional gas-fired power plants.
"The abject irony is that the once-freewheeling power market is now on the precipice of becoming fully government-controlled," said Aaron Zubaty, the chief executive of Eolian, which invests in energy projects. "New technologies have provided market solutions and scaled rapidly," he said. The result, he added, is that legacy gas-fired power generators and their political backers are trying to increase barriers for the newcomers and "push the market to go all-in on natural gas."
He pointed to the swift growth of batteries, even without any state mandates, as an example of why interventions were not necessary to bring innovation.
The increasing importance of batteries to the Texas electricity grid could be seen on a Tuesday in August when the state hit a new high for energy demand, a load that might have threatened the grid only a few years ago. But that day, the state produced near-record amounts of solar energy. When the sun went down, large-scale batteries put out more power than ever before.
Texans barely noticed the crunch. The air-conditioners hummed along.
Demand for power in Texas is growing at a rapid clip. A big part of the increase, experts said, has been from the electrification of the oil and gas fields of the Permian Basin - an expanse of oil-rich West Texas where fracking has boomed. In other words, oil and gas companies are increasingly turning to electricity to power their operations in Texas.
Despite few people living there, the region is expected to see energy demands rivaling those of major cities.
"The Permian Basin is forecasting to become about the size, electrically, of the Houston area," said Pablo Vegas, the head of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, the state's market operator, known as ERCOT.
Texas, which is the nation's second most populous state, already consumes far more energy than any other state. Officials recently changed how they calculate the potential growth in energy demand and now estimate that the state could nearly double its peak demand by 2030.
The current record for demand at a single time (that Tuesday in August) was about 86 gigawatts. (By contrast, the demand record in California, set in 2022, is 52 gigawatts.)
In six years, ERCOT has said, Texas could see peak demand above 150 gigawatts. The forecast raised concern among some state leaders about the grid's ability to meet such fast-rising demand. Mr. Patrick said in a social media post that the state should take "a close look" at the increased demand from data centers and crypto mines.
The state's power needs are a big reason that efforts by some Republicans in the legislature to rein in renewables - sometimes called "unreliables" by critics - are unlikely to succeed, said Ed Hirs, an economist and energy fellow at the University of Houston.
"At this point the legislature can't do anything to stop the growth of solar and wind and batteries," Mr. Hirs said. "The state desperately needs it."
Much like an external battery for a cellphone, batteries that connect to an electricity grid are meant to provide stored energy for a short time, running only for a few hours. They charge up when energy is plentiful, and prices are low, and they put out their power when energy supplies begin to flag, and prices rise. As a result, the growth in batteries complements the development of wind and especially solar power, whose ups and downs vary throughout the day.
The potential pricing windfall has led businesses to rush to build more battery facilities. The queue for new energy projects waiting to link to the Texas grid includes nearly as much power from batteries as from solar, according to ERCOT data.
"Texas is such a unique place," said Matthew Boms, the executive director of the Texas Advanced Energy Business Alliance, which promotes renewable energy businesses. "You have a free market and a grid that's all in one state. That's attracted all this private investment in battery storage, and solar and wind."
The result has been a lot of recent construction.
Not far from downtown Houston, by the site of a former gas-fired power plant, large containers filled with small lithium-ion battery cells - half a million cells in total - sit in neat rows. They were not doing much on a relatively cool and cloudy late summer day, but were ready to discharge power to the grid when needed.
The batteries, owned by Jupiter Power, began operating last month. "Two or three years ago there were barely any batteries anywhere," Andy Bowman, the chief executive of Jupiter Power, said. "That's capitalism working."
#240
China, the world's biggest source of planet-warming greenhouse gases for most of the past two decades, is seemingly on the verge of bending its emissions curve from years of steep growth into a flat plateau.
The implications for climate change could scarcely be greater. Since China's emissions surpassed those of the United States in 2006, China's global share has grown to almost a third - a huge number, even with population differences taken into account.
A recent spate of data from China's government, as well as reports by energy analysts, have provided positive signs that while China's emissions may not decrease significantly, they also may not grow. China's president, Xi Jinping, had pledged to reach that turning point by 2030.
"The important thing to understand is that when China's emissions stop growing, it likely follows that the world's stop growing, too," said Dave Jones, global insight director at Ember, an energy think tank.
The biggest factor in the shift is changes to how China produces its electricity. In short, renewable sources are replacing coal, the most polluting fossil fuel.
Last year alone, China installed more solar panels than the United States has in its entire history, and connected most of them to its electricity grid.
Almost two-thirds of big wind and solar plants under construction globally are in China, according to a report last week from Global Energy Monitor. That is more than eight times the wind and solar capacity being planned in the United States.
And in May, China generated 53 percent of its electricity from coal, its lowest share since its government began publishing energy data decades ago, while nearly all the rest of it came from non-fossil-fuel sources. "This indicated that China may have peaked" its emissions, said Belinda Schäpe, a China analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air.
However, some observers caution that "peak" was perhaps the wrong word to describe the current trend in China.
"We've been talking about whether there's been a peak for almost a decade," said Li Shuo, the director of China Climate Hub at the Asia Society Policy Institute. "Peaking assumes persistent emissions decline after it is passed. That's not an assumption we can or should make."
Mr. Li said it was more likely that China's emissions would plateau. And he cautioned that while growth in renewable energy was responsible for replacing coal in electricity generation, other factors - such as China's recent real estate crisis and sluggish post-pandemic economy - have led to less consumption of energy overall, which might skew the data downward, but only temporarily.
"If you look at China's emissions profile of the past two decades, one particular source was hugely significant: real estate and construction, whose supply chain made up about a third of all emissions," he said. "That's cooling off."
More reliable signs have come from recent policy shifts, he said. In particular, a new ban on permits for steel factories that would use coal to fire their blast furnaces could have far-reaching effects. A huge push toward electric-vehicle production has also dampened demand for oil.
But, ultimately, China's emissions trajectory will come down to how quickly renewables can displace coal from its electricity mix. While coal's share has fallen, China is still investing in it as a power source.
China alone accounted for two-thirds of the world's newly operating coal plants last year. In 2023, new coal-plant construction hit an eight-year high in China. If China were to build all the others it has proposed, it would add the equivalent of one-third of its current operating fleet. Today, China accounts for around 60 percent of the world's coal use.
Some of China's coal build-out is meant to provide a fallback option for when wind and solar generation dips. But China is also investing heavily in pumped-storage hydropower. Pumped hydro is a way to store energy by pumping water uphill to a reservoir during times of low demand for electricity, then releasing it later to generate extra electricity if demand surges.
Those systems could help reduce the demand for coal power during peak times.
Oil and gas are also used in Chinese industry as power sources. But Mr. Li cautioned that while both China's domestic production of petrochemicals was growing as well as its imports of them, the deciding factor in China's emissions trajectory will be coal's decline.
In the coming months, China's government is expected to unveil new commitments to reduce emissions ahead of November's United Nations-sponsored climate summit, COP 29, in Azerbaijan.
"Diplomatic attention is fixated on the question: Has China peaked or not," said Mr. Li. "You could imagine that if the answer is yes, so far ahead of schedule, it might give China more reason to be even more ambitious with its reduction targets."
#241
On a craggy desert plateau in Uzbekistan, a renewable energy company from the United Arab Emirates is putting up more than 100 wind turbines.
And on the other side of this vast, landlocked Central Asian nation, the same company's owners, Emirati fossil-fuel investors, are pouring billions of dollars into a gas plant expansion.
The Emirates, made wealthy by decades of oil exports, wants to be seen as a climate-friendly renewable energy superpower, even as it helps lock developing nations around the world into decades more fossil fuel use.
Straddling that split is one man: Sultan al Jaber.
He founded the renewable energy company, Masdar, which has invested billions of dollars in zero-emissions energy technologies like wind and solar power across 40 countries. Simultaneously, he directs Adnoc, the national oil company, a behemoth that makes Masdar look minuscule. Adnoc pumps millions of barrels of oil per day and aims to spend $150 billion over the next five years, mostly to ramp up its output.
And this year, the United Nations has in effect vested Mr. al Jaber with one of humanity's most pressing tasks: steering its annual global climate negotiations, which are set to begin in November in Dubai.
Those increasingly urgent talks are the world's main forum to address how to limit global warming. The scientific consensus, that preventing runaway climate change must be done largely by bring a rapid end to the fossil fuel era, has made the decision to have Mr. al-Jaber preside over the summit intensely controversial.
In an interview, Mr. al Jaber, 49, said he was the perfect fit for the job.
Over six months of preparation for the summit, known as COP28, Mr. al Jaber said, he has consulted everyone from academicians to financiers to Indigenous leaders to fellow oil executives to understand why past summits have yielded such little progress.
His conclusion was that the fossil fuel industry had little to do with it.
"That was not one of the findings," he said. Instead, he said, progress was stymied because climate advocates and fossil fuel interests vilified each other. "Why are we fighting industries? Fighting emissions should focus on reducing emissions across the board, whether it's oil and gas, whether it's industry, regardless of what it is."
Advocates for bold climate action have been outraged by his approach, which rests on bringing fossil fuel companies to the table, and which he claims will break that cycle of recrimination. A group of 133 U.S. Senators and European Union lawmakers signed a letter this year calling for him to be replaced.
Multinational fossil fuel companies have a well-documented track record of countering climate science through misinformation and lobbying campaigns, even as now-public internal documents have revealed they were well aware of the effects of their products on the atmosphere.
At last year's COP summit, Saudi Arabia, China, Russia and other fossil fuel producing nations blocked language in a final resolution that would have set a timeline for phasing out oil and gas, scuttling an outcome favored by most of the world's countries. Mr. al-Jaber will be responsible for building a new consensus this year.
Negotiations at recent United Nations climate summits have faltered because countries struggle to agree on how quickly the world can move away from burning fossil fuels, which produce emissions that are warming the planet and making it increasingly dangerous for human habitation. Rich countries have produced the vast majority of greenhouse gas emissions since the beginning of the industrial age.
Mr. al Jaber points to the Emirates as a model for speeding up the change. The Emirates' leaders, he says, "saw the future that the world was heading toward and wanted to get ahead of it."
In other words, they predicted the energy transition (fossil fuels are finite, after all) and wanted to make sure they remained an energy powerhouse.
Masdar, which the Emirates' crown prince helped Mr. al Jaber found in 2006, is now partly owned by Adnoc, as well as by TAQA, the Emirates' national gas company, and Mubadala, its biggest state-run investment firm. Mr. al Jaber said that Masdar would receive investments of around $35 billion over the next five years, less than a quarter of Adnoc's $150 billion spending target.
In Uzbekistan, TAQA and Mubadala are building two new gas facilities. Other countries in the region are also getting Emirati help to expand fossil fuel energy infrastructure: In Azerbaijan, a recent Adnoc investment in an offshore oil field overshadowed Masdar's expansion in renewable energy there.
"There is a large consensus that investing billions into new oil and gas projects flies in the face of clear warnings we've been getting from the scientific community for many years," said Scott Zimmerman, who manages a database of oil and gas projects at Global Energy Monitor, a research organization.
The Emirates is not the only country where companies are announcing new fossil fuel projects. But while investments worldwide in solar energy, for instance, have already surpassed those in oil, the Emirates is still a major exporter of fossil fuel projects.
Adnoc's projected growth will lead to more than 2.7 gigatons of carbon dioxide emissions through their production and burning, according to a 2022 report from Oil Change International. That is more than a year of combined emissions from Germany and Japan, and is second only to Qatar's national energy company, which is building the world's largest gas facility.
Mr. al Jaber said that he foresees Adnoc's fossil fuel production expanding "as long as the market demands it," but that the effects on the globe can be blunted with new technologies that one day may allow them to minimize emissions stemming from the production of oil and gas. That argument for abatement echoes that of world's largest fossil fuel producers, including Adnoc, which are investing huge sums of money into carbon capture.
A husband and wife team baking bread at dawn in Bukhara.
Right now, however, the technology is nascent and the scientists developing it say that we are many years away from deploying it at scale.
"They are needed, those tech solutions, but they can't be developed fast enough," said Mia Moisio, a Middle East analyst at Climate Action Tracker, which grades nations' climate pledges. "At least, certainly not fast enough for Adnoc's expansion over the next five years."
Near Saudi Arabia, and Oman, the map locates the United Arab Emirates, which is the home of Masdar, a renewable energy company founded by Sultan al-Jaber. In the northern Emirates is the city of Dubai where U.N. annual global climate negotiations will be held in November. A detailed map also locates Uzbekistan, northeast of the United Arab Emirates, and the central region of Navoi, where Masdar has solar installations, and also wind farms in the Kyzylkum Desert. These areas contain fossil fuel projects as well. South of the Navoi region are the cities of Bukhara and Talimarjon.
The Emirates' received a rating of "insufficient" for its policies and actions from that group last month. Ms. Moisio noted that the Emirates' 2050 energy strategy still envisions the country getting half of its energy from gas, despite having abundant solar potential.
The energy transition presents a quandary for developing countries, like Uzbekistan, which want a clean way to grow their economies. Uzbekistan's population is growing rapidly, and electricity demand grew by 18 percent last year.
The country relies almost entirely on foreign investment to expand its energy production, whether it is in wind turbines or gas refineries.
"Right now we are almost all gas. But we need everything we can get," Jurabek Mirzamakhmudov, the country's energy minister, said in an interview. "We want whatever can be done quickest and cheapest."
Masdar won a bid to supply the national grid with renewable electricity by promising the government a price of 2 cents per kilowatt-hour. And Uzbekistan's government didn't have to help pay for the new installations.
At the site of a new wind farm close to the world's largest open-pit gold mine, workers were in the process of installing a fourth turbine recently, and there were at least 107 more to go. The wind that made the place such a good spot for power production whipped up enormous clouds of dust, some of which blew into the workers' lunches.
Mr. Mirzamakhmudov said that Masdar's investments could help Uzbekistan get to about 15 gigawatts of energy from wind and solar by the end of the decade. That would mean a quarter of the country's electricity could come from renewables, including existing hydropower sources. The rest would come from fossil fuels.
This May, the Energy Ministry signed an agreement with TAQA and Mubadala to build the new gas plants at the site of an existing one near Uzbekistan's border with gas-rich Turkmenistan. The new plants will be twice as efficient as the currently operating one, but the plant's director, Olim Yusupov, said there was still a greater need for gas.
"We have gone from being a exporter to an importer of gas, the demand is so high," Mr. Mirzamakhmudov said. "We must produce more."
That is the central dilemma Mr. al Jaber will face at COP28 this fall, where he is trying not only to elicit pledges to drastically reduce emissions, but to guide the energy transition in a way that will ensure economic security for nations.
The stakes are high for a man, and his country, playing contradictory roles in a realignment that will transform the global economy.
"We don't want to disrupt the world," Mr. al Jaber said. "And yes, neither do we want business as usual."
Vivian Nereim contributed reporting.
#242
In a move aimed at lowering the greenhouse gas emissions of air travel, the Biden administration on Tuesday issued new guidelines for how fuel producers - and in particular, makers of ethanol from corn - could qualify for tax credits under a plan to increase the supply of so-called sustainable aviation fuel.
It's especially difficult to transition airplanes away from traditional jet fuel because there are so few affordable alternatives capable of getting a plane off the ground. The global aviation sector accounts for about 3 percent of the world's total emissions, and most jet fuel today is made from fossil fuels.
The proposed guidelines could have major implications for corn-producing states. The guidelines offer incentives for farmers to use climate-friendly methods to grow the crops, such as corn or soy, that are used in alternative fuels like ethanol.
President Biden's 2022 Inflation Reduction Act offered federal tax credits for sustainable aviation fuels, industry jargon for jet fuel made without fossil fuels, that cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50 percent. For months now, federal officials have been evaluating research to decide how to measure whether various biofuel-based alternatives meet that standard.
Sustainable aviation fuel is already occasionally blended into traditional jet fuel, albeit at small, single-digit percentages. That scale is well below the government's target of 3 billion gallons per year by 2030. Currently, most of it is made out of used cooking oil, and it costs two to four times as much as jet fuel.
Nearly 40 percent of U.S. corn production already goes into the distillation of ethanol fuel, which is blended into gasoline. And while ethanol could feasibly be blended with jet fuel now, uncertainty over how its production could meet stringent carbon-emissions and land-use requirements have prevented its inclusion in the mix. Corn production is also water intensive, and a New York Times investigation last year found that, in some places, it draws on sensitive aquifers.
Biden Administration officials introduced a new pilot program for corn ethanol to be used as jet fuel that could qualify for tax credits if certain climate-friendly farming practices were used in combination. They include no-till farming, which minimizes erosion, and covering the soil with crops that leave behind organic matter in the dirt. The program sets out similar guidelines for soy.
The new formula for claiming the tax credits - which spans 40 pages, is highly technical and must still be finalized - would also consider whether producers use carbon capture and storage, low-emissions natural gas, and renewable electricity in their processes.
"Incentives in the law are helping to scale production of low-carbon fuels and cut emissions from the aviation sector, one of the most difficult-to-transition sectors of our economy," Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen said in a news release.
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack said the guidelines acknowledged "the important role farmers can play in lowering greenhouse gas emissions and begins to reward them through that contribution in the production of new fuels."
Environmental groups have been skeptical that some of the practices detailed in the new guidelines are as beneficial to thwarting climate change as government officials say they are. Mark Brownstein, a senior vice president at the Environmental Defense Fund, said he was reviewing the proposed guidelines but that "we are concerned this decision may have missed the mark."
The powerful corn and ethanol industries had been watching the Biden administration's announcement closely to understand just how much corn farmers and ethanol producers would have to adapt, and how much detailed record-keeping would be required, to take advantage of the tax credits.
"We of course understand there will be a level of stringency needed," said Geoff Cooper, president of the Renewable Fuels Association, a leading ethanol lobby group. "It's a balancing act. And there is no way the U.S. produces 3 billion gallons by 2030 unless corn ethanol is part of that picture."
While the United States has set ambitious targets for production, building a supply chain will take years. Not one large-scale sustainable aviation fuel plant exists in the United States yet. The Biden administration's stated goal is to grow production rapidly so it can satisfy all domestic jet fuel demand by 2050.
Europe is at least slightly ahead. The European Union is set to introduce a blending mandate requiring airports to supply jet fuel at 2 percent blends from 2025.
Ethanol producers are looking for a new outlet for their product as electric-vehicle usage cuts into gasoline demand. And with national elections in the United States set for November, politicians can benefit from broadening incentives that are politically popular in Corn Belt states.
On Monday, major airlines including American, Alaska, Hawaiian, JetBlue and United announced a partnership with dozens of other organizations including agricultural enterprises, aircraft makers, airports, labor unions and biofuel producers that aims to scale up sustainable aviation fuel production. The group "believes in the importance of ethanol as a tool to help our industry decarbonize," said Lauren Riley, the chief sustainability officer at United Airlines.
#243
Over the last two years, a surge in clean energy manufacturing has helped push U.S. factory construction to the highest level in half a century. Solar power installations and electric car sales are breaking records. Even Republican-led states like Montana and Utah are writing climate plans to secure federal cash.
Yet the law driving this dizzying transformation of America's energy landscape, the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, is facing a highly uncertain future as next week's election looms.
If he returns to the White House, former President Donald J. Trump has suggested he would gut the law, which is expected to pour as much as $1.2 trillion over the next decade into technologies to fight climate change such as wind turbines, solar panels, nuclear reactors, carbon capture and E.V.s, as well as the factories to supply them.
"My plan will terminate the Green New Deal, which I call the Green New Scam," Mr. Trump said in September, using his catchall phrase for climate policies. "We will rescind all unspent funds under the misnamed Inflation Reduction Act."
By contrast, Vice President Kamala Harris, who cast the law's tiebreaking vote in the Senate, hopes to accelerate the growth of clean energy to slash greenhouse gas emissions, though that would require speeding up federal permits while overcoming local opposition and electric grid constraints.
While the Inflation Reduction Act is billed as the biggest climate law in United States history, analysts say it is too early to judge its impact.
"The law has a ten-year window and we're only two years in," said Andrew Reagan, executive director of Clean Energy for America, an advocacy group. "A big question for this election is whether we'll continue to see a rapid acceleration of clean energy that helps us meet our climate targets and catch up with adversaries like China."
Since the law passed, companies have announced $154 billion in investments for U.S. factories to make clean energy technologies, spurred on by tax credits. But only about half of that, or $86.7 billion, represents factories that are currently operating or under construction, according to data from Atlas Public Policy, a research firm.
Some companies may be waiting to see how the election shakes out. "There is uncertainty," Mr. Reagan said. "People are holding onto projects."
One recent survey of 900 companies in the clean energy industry found that 53 percent said they would lose business if the Inflation Reduction Act were repealed, and 21 percent said they would have to shed workers.
It could prove difficult for Mr. Trump to dismantle the law entirely. Roughly 80 percent of new manufacturing investments has so far flowed to Republican congressional districts, including electric-vehicle plants in Georgia and battery factories in South Carolina, according to Atlas Public Policy. In August, 18 House Republicans wrote a letter to Speaker Mike Johnson asking him to retain key clean-energy tax credits.
But Mr. Trump could push Congressional Republicans to repeal portions, such as tax breaks for electric vehicles and charging stations, or make certain credits hard to get. Some conservative groups have recommended that Mr. Trump freeze activity at the Energy Department's Loan Programs Office. As of September, that office had roughly $210 billion in loan authority to help promote novel technologies.
The Trump campaign did not respond to a request for comment.
Many companies hope the law will stay largely intact no matter who wins next week.
KORE Power, a battery cell developer, recently received a conditional commitment for an $850 million loan from the Energy Department to help construct an enormous factory in Buckeye, Ariz., that could produce enough lithium ion cells for more than 28,000 electric cars annually. The loan has yet to be finalized, but Jay Bellows, the company's president, is optimistic it will move forward even under a Trump administration. Most lithium ion cells today are made in China and moving supply chains to the United States is something both parties can support, he said.
"This is about energy independence, right? It's about energy security," Mr. Bellows said. "This is one topic that both sides can get behind."
'It's going to take a little more time'
Perhaps the most visible impact of the Inflation Reduction Act so far has been a surge of domestic manufacturing. Four years ago, the United States had hardly any capacity to build solar panels, wind turbines or lithium ion batteries. Most of that happened in China and elsewhere.
That's quickly changing.
The law gave hefty tax breaks to wind and solar developers if they used components made in the United States. It also doled out additional tax credits for domestic clean-energy factories. In addition, billions of dollars in funding from the 2021 bipartisan infrastructure law have allowed the Biden administration to nurture domestic supply chains.
In West Branch, Iowa, a factory that made nacelles for wind turbines but halted production in 2013 will restart next year. Nordex Group, the European company that owns the plant, had largely imported turbine parts into the United States in recent years. The law's manufacturing tax credits shifted that calculus.
"It's a big change," said Manav Sharma, chief executive of Nordex Group's North American division.
Those tax credits have been so popular that the law is now expected to cost more than originally estimated, maybe as much as $1.2 trillion over 10 years. Critics point out that the law might no longer cut the deficit, as Democrats initially promised.
The law has also poured money into uncertain technologies that might one day help tackle climate change. In South Dakota, the biofuels company Gevo is preparing to build a first-of-its-kind plant that will turn cornstarch into 60 million gallons of jet fuel each year to cut airplane emissions. The company plans to take advantage of new federal tax credits for sustainable aviation fuel as well as a $1.46 billion loan guarantee from the Energy Department.
"I think the economics work, but project costs are going to be higher on the first plant," said Patrick Gruber, Gevo's chief executive. The federal funding was important, he said, "so we can go build it and prove it can be done."
Despite all the activity, polls suggest that few Americans know much about the Inflation Reduction Act or think it has improved their lives. It can take years for planned factories to get built and staff up.
"We're starting to see more members of Congress aware that there are lots of jobs at stake," said Jeff Navin, a co-founder of Boundary Stone Partners, an energy lobbying firm. "But to really get into the consciousness, it's going to take a little more time."
A race to get money out
Most of the money in the Inflation Reduction Act flows through tax credits that are effectively uncapped for ten years. But both the law and the 2021 bipartisan infrastructure bill also authorized roughly $182 billion in grants and spending for energy and climate programs over several years.
As the election approaches, the Biden administration has been trying to get as much of that money out the door as possible, making it harder for a future Trump administration to claw back spending.
In August, the Environmental Protection Agency announced $4.3 billion in awards to states and local governments that had competed to devise ideas for reducing emissions. Utah won $75 million for a plan to deploy electric vehicles in low-income areas and reduce leaks of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, from oil and gas operations. Pennsylvania won $396 million to cut pollution from steel mills and other industrial facilities.
The E.P.A. is now racing to finalize those awards by year's end, so that the funding is fully obligated and can't easily be rescinded.
In mid-October, the Denver Regional Council of Governments finalized its $200 million award from the agency to help cut emissions from buildings by switching from gas to electricity. "Getting that done was important," said Robert Spotts, a program manger at the council. "I wouldn't say the funds are invincible now, but it would take some pretty aggressive legislation to pull them back."
Other awards over the past year include $6 billion to help cut carbon from heavy industries like steel and cement, $7.6 billion to upgrade electric grids, and more than $8 billion to help rural electric providers switch from burning coal and gas to cleaner alternatives like wind, solar and nuclear power.
All told, the White House estimates that more than $98 billion of climate and clean energy grant awards in the Inflation Reduction Act have now been announced, or about 88 percent of funding available through the fiscal year that ended in September.
"The administration is working to implement the Investing in America agenda as quickly, effectively, responsibly, and equitably as possible, and has been since President Biden signed each bill into law," said Angelo Fernández Hernández, a White House spokesman.
That still leaves billions of dollars unspent, including funds to build new transmission lines and money for agricultural conservation. Many states still haven't finalized programs to use federal dollars to give consumers rebates for heat pumps and other efficient appliances.
If elected, Mr. Trump, who has railed against subsidies for electric cars, could try to scrap the law's $7,500 tax credit for consumers to purchase E.V.s built in the United States. He could try to repeal a provision that charges oil and gas companies up to $1,500 for every ton of methane that leaks from their systems. Or he could revise guidelines around certain energy tax credits, making them harder to obtain.
"They might not be able to kill the entire thing, but there's a lot that could be changed," said Kevin Book, managing director of ClearView Energy Partners, a Washington-based research firm. "And it doesn't take a lot of uncertainty to quash investment."
Climate goals in question
Analysts generally expect that America's planet-warming emissions would be higher under Mr. Trump, who has also promised to increase oil and gas drilling, than under Ms. Harris. But figuring out the exact impact is difficult.
One recent analysis by BloombergNEF estimated that America's wind, solar and battery capacity could triple over the next decade if the Inflation Reduction Act stayed in place and interest rates kept declining. But repealing the law could jeopardize about 17 percent of those expected projects, particularly wind power. Higher inflation or new trade disputes with other countries could further roil the industry.
Solar power and batteries have become cheap enough that installations would quite likely keep growing no matter what, although maybe at a slower pace, said Gregg Felton, chief executive of Altus, the largest owner of commercial-scale solar projects in the United States. "We have a business that is going to grow regardless," he said. "The question is, how fast?"
The pace matters when it comes to climate change. The Biden administration has pledged to cut U.S. emissions 50 percent below 2005 levels by 2030 to help limit global warming to tolerable levels. Early analyses suggested that the Inflation Reduction Act could help achieve a 40 percent cut.
But the law could struggle to achieve its full potential, even in a Harris administration, without major reforms to reduce the yearslong waits that energy projects and transmission lines face in obtaining government permits.
"About half the emissions reductions in the bill depend on us being able to build solar, wind and transmission much faster than we're doing today," said Ryan Jones, a co-founder of Evolved Energy Research, an energy modeling firm. "A lot of things have to go right for that to happen."
#244
The climate law that President Biden signed in 2022 has created a large and growing market for companies to buy and sell clean-energy tax credits, new Treasury Department data suggests, creating opportunities for start-ups to raise money for projects like wind farms and solar panel installations.
The market also provides new opportunities for large companies and financial firms to make money.
Treasury officials reported on Tuesday that more than 500 companies had registered a total of 45,500 new clean-energy projects with the Internal Revenue Service in order to benefit from tax breaks in the 2022 law. That law, the Inflation Reduction Act, is the federal government's most expensive effort ever to reduce fossil fuel emissions and fight global warming.
The projects registered with Treasury vary widely in size. They could be as small as a single wind turbine or as large as a new advanced battery factory. Treasury officials say that they are predominantly focused on wind and solar energy thus far, and that projects have been registered across all 50 states and the District of Columbia.
The numbers reflect both the wide scope of the climate law and the novel mechanisms it created for companies to cash in on its incentives.
The law seeks to encourage more production and faster deployment of emissions-reducing technologies, in part by offering tax credits to companies that manufacture those technologies or install them across the country. The credits are lucrative: Solar manufacturers, for example, say the incentives have reduced the cost of American production significantly and helped American-made panels compete with those made in China.
Typically, in order to cash in on tax incentives, American companies need to have high enough revenue and profits to generate significant federal tax liability. That has made it hard for small companies, start-ups and others struggling to turn a profit to benefit from the climate law. So the Inflation Reduction Act's authors created what are effectively two workarounds to help the law boost those companies, both of which require registering projects with the I.R.S.
One mechanism allows a handful of groups, like nonprofit hospitals and local and tribal governments, to receive direct payments from the government for the value of tax credits - for activities like installing an array of solar panels.
A more expansive mechanism essentially allows companies to buy and sell the value of their tax credits on an open marketplace. A big corporation with significant tax liability might pay $900,000 to a start-up that has generated $1 million worth of tax credits for wind-turbine production, for example. The start-up gets a cash infusion to help finance production. The big company reduces its tax bill, at a discount.
Usually, financial middlemen take a cut for facilitating the transaction - but experts say that cost is still lower for many companies than the cost of borrowing money to underwrite production.
"Businesses in need of liquidity can sell their credits instead of taking out loans," the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service wrote last month, "which is especially important when interest rates are high."
Treasury officials say registration of projects is a first screen to detect possible fraud in the claiming of tax benefits. It does not guarantee the registered projects will qualify for credits. Officials do not expect the first wave of data on how many credits were claimed last year, the first full year of the law's incentives, to be available until fall.
Still, the number of projects now registered is a surge from January, when Treasury reported just over 1,000 registrations for direct payments or eligibility for the new tax-credit marketplace. Of the 45,500 total registrations, more than 98 percent are destined for the marketplace, officials said.
"Before the Inflation Reduction Act, it was more challenging for companies to access tax incentives to finance projects and deploy new clean power," Wally Adeyemo, the deputy Treasury secretary, said in a written statement. "Meeting our economic and climate goals depends on the ability of companies to finance capital intensive projects like building new factories, and initial data is encouraging."
Mr. Adeyemo said the data also suggested that another portion of the Inflation Reduction Act was working as intended: an increase in funding for the I.R.S., part of which is dedicated to updating the agency's technological capacities and allowing it to easily collect information like the tax-credit registrations.
#245
In Weirton, W.Va., in the heart of coal country, a company started by MIT scientists plans to build a plant that will produce a metal and alloy critical for clean energy, fuel cells and cleaner steel.
In Vernon, Texas, also a former coal town, a third-generation wind entrepreneur plans to manufacture turbines suitable for remote, rural locations.
And in Vandergrift, Pa., and Louisville, Colo., a window maker plans to retrofit aging factories to produce thin, insulated units that help make buildings more energy efficient.
They're all projects getting federal funding designed to help small- and medium-sized manufacturers bring clean-energy jobs to former coal communities, part of a $1 trillion infrastructure package signed by President Biden in 2021. The Energy Department announced the projects on Monday.
The program is an effort by the Biden administration to win support for its agenda to reduce American dependence on coal, oil and gas, the main drivers of global warming. But it also points to the broad realization that as the world transitions toward cleaner energy sources like wind and solar, workers in fossil-fuel industries - as well as regions that depend on them - risk getting left behind.
Coal mining jobs have declined precipitously over the past decades, and there were less than 50,000 miners left in the United States in 2022, half the number 10 years ago, according to the latest figures from the Energy Information Agency.
And these energy workers haven't been finding clean-energy jobs, despite the rapid growth in industries like solar and wind. A recent study that examined 130 million online work profiles found that in 2021, fewer than 1 percent of all workers who left jobs like coal, mining and oil and gas transitioned to "green" jobs in renewables.
Coal workers, in particular, have struggled in the transition, the study found. Less than a quarter of a percent of workers who left a fossil fuel job in West Virginia moved onto a job in renewable energy, said E. Mark Curtis, an economist at Wake Forest University who led the study. Education was another factor: Fossil fuel workers without a college degree were significantly less likely to find clean energy jobs.
"In places like Texas or in the middle of the country where there's a lot of solar and wind, fossil fuel communities are relatively well positioned to take advantage of renewables," Mr. Curtis said. "Coal communities generally don't have that, especially when you think about Appalachia."
He said it made sense for government funding to target former coal regions, and to focus on manufacturing projects, because data showed that former fossil fuel workers most frequently sought to switch to manufacturing jobs. "I think that's a very viable type of transition for a lot of these workers and communities to make," he said.
With the grant program, the United States is also trying to reclaim more clean-energy manufacturing, which China and other countries have come to dominate over the past decade.
The goal is to "bring new economic opportunities and ensure these communities continue their key role in strengthening America's national and energy security," said Jennifer M. Granholm, the U.S. Secretary of Energy.
The program will distribute $275 million to seven projects in its initial round and the D.O.E. said it expects its funding to be matched by about $600 million more in private investment.
The companies building the new plants said they are eager to tap local expertise. "The most valuable asset for the project is a legacy work force that has played a significant role in the U.S. metals industry," Tadeu Carneiro, the chief executive of Boston Metal, said in an interview.
Its new West Virginia plant expects to hire 200 to 250 people and will manufacture ultrapure chromium metal and high temperature alloys that are critical materials needed for clean power, fuel cells and steel. Currently, foreign manufacturers dominate those materials.
West Virginia Northern Community College, which teaches about 1,600 students in Weirton, said in a letter of support for the project that it was ready to set up courses and internships for students interested in jobs at Boston Metal.
The proposed project, it said, "can help revitalize metals manufacturing in the region after decades of decline."
#246
In the rocky soil of Lorraine, a former coal mining region near the French-German border, scientists guided a small probe one recent day down a borehole half a mile into the earth's crust.
Frothing in the water table below was an exciting find: champagne-size bubbles that signaled a potentially mammoth cache of so-called white hydrogen, one of the cleanest-burning fuels in nature.
"Hydrogen is magical - when you burn it you release water, so there are no carbon emissions to warm the planet," said one of the scientists, Jacques Pironon, a senior researcher and professor at the University of Lorraine. "We think we've uncovered one of the largest deposits of natural hydrogen anywhere in the world."
The discovery by Mr. Pironon and another scientist, Philippe de Donato, both members of France's respected National Center for Scientific Research, caused a sensation in France, where the government has vowed to become a European leader in clean hydrogen.
There are still many questions about the find, including exactly how big it is and how best to extract the gas. But it has added to a trail of clues elsewhere in the world that a holy grail of clean energy may be lying in the earth for the taking.
Governments and companies worldwide have been betting on hydrogen as a cornerstone in the fight against climate change. A multibillion-dollar industry, backed by billions more in subsidies and private investments, has sprung up to support the manufacturing of hydrogen, which in theory could substitute for fossil fuels to power factories, trucks, ships and planes, potentially removing around half of all planet-warming emissions.
But making commercial hydrogen involves splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen, an endeavor that requires energy. If fossil fuels are used, the process results in greenhouse gas emissions, and the result is called gray hydrogen. Tapping renewable electricity from wind turbines and solar panels to produce what's called green hydrogen is cleaner but more expensive.
Natural hydrogen, also called white hydrogen because of its purity, could be a game changer, scientists say, because it is a potential source of clean energy continuously generated by the earth. Hydrogen reservoirs form when heated water meets iron-rich rocks. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, just a small fraction of these deposits could provide enough clean energy for hundreds of years.
"If they do verify this discovery, then it is very significant and would have a big impact on society," Geoffrey Ellis, a geochemist at the U.S. Geological Survey and a global expert on hydrogen, said of the French finding. "There are many other places around the world where similar finds could also be made, and people are looking at it because it really could be impactful."
In Lorraine, the scientists said their tests suggested that 46 million to 260 million metric tons of natural hydrogen could be lurking beneath the coal mines, which were abandoned in the 1970s when France shifted to nuclear power. By comparison, around 70 million metric tons of hydrogen is produced commercially worldwide each year.
Natural hydrogen reserves have been detected recently in parts of the United States, Australia, Africa, Russia and elsewhere in Europe, too. It's not unusual to find hydrogen when drilling for gas or oil, but in the past companies ignored such discoveries because of low demand.
Researchers didn't give white hydrogen much credence until a chance discovery in Bourakébougou, a small village in Mali, in 1987 when a worker accidentally set fire to a water well by lighting a cigarette over it. The well was found to contain natural hydrogen, and it is now used to power shops and homes after a local entrepreneur hired a petroleum company to tap the gas.
"People had not been looking for natural hydrogen for years and years because everyone was focused on drilling for oil and gas," said Julien Moulin, president of Française De l'Énergie, a clean energy company that is working with Mr. Pironon and Mr. de Donato to test and develop white hydrogen projects. "But it feels like we're at the beginning of a new dynamic," he said.
Française De l'Énergie's primary business has been capturing methane gas from coal seams and converting it to clean power for industries in the region. With the discovery of hydrogen, the company will intensify efforts to explore and extract it, Mr. Moulin said.
"You've got the cake - now the question is how do you eat it?" he said. "You need to create the tools to develop this resource, and that will be the work of the next several years."
The efforts in Lorraine reflect broader excitement rippling through the clean fuel industry about natural hydrogen. The growing understanding that earth is its own hydrogen factory has set off a mini-gold rush among researchers and start-up energy companies eager to make a find.
In Australia, Gold Hydrogen, an independent energy company, is digging for natural hydrogen near Adelaide after unearthing historical papers from two oil wells drilled in the 1930s that showed vast amounts of high-purity hydrogen in the area. Bill Gates is among the investors in the United States who have provided funding to Koloma, a Colorado company probing for hydrogen in a huge geological rift in the Midwest. In Europe, small energy companies from Spain, Switzerland, the Nordic countries and beyond are all scouring the earth's crust.
Whether white hydrogen lives up to the hype remains to be seen. So far, the finds range from potentially huge ones that may take years to verify, like the one in Lorraine, to small or extremely deep accumulations that may not be economically viable to go after, Mr. Ellis said. Questions linger about whether it is an unlimited source of clean fuel. Big oil companies, like TotalEnergies of France, have not jumped in to invest and appear to be waiting on the sidelines to see how things develop.
Then there is the cost. Although the United States and Europe have set aside billions to subsidize the development of green hydrogen using renewable power, none of that money goes to encourage white hydrogen production.
And producers of white hydrogen must keep an eye on the final price of their gas. Although green hydrogen costs about $5 per kilogram to produce - more than twice as much as gray hydrogen - the U.S. Energy Department is sponsoring a program to get green hydrogen's price to $1 per kilogram within a decade.
In Spain, a start-up called Helios Aragón is developing a natural hydrogen production project in the Pyrenees that it claims will be able to match or beat that price.
"The No. 1 question is what the cost will be," said Marco Alverà, chief executive of Tree Energy Solutions, or TES, a company that plans to produce and import clean hydrogen to Europe. For natural hydrogen to be competitive, "it depends on many factors, including the pressure the gas is under, the temperature, the type of rock you drill through," he said.
In the meantime, Europe is building a large network of pipelines that could deliver manufactured hydrogen to factories and fuel sites. The hope is that white hydrogen could one day flow through them.
If all goes according to plan in Lorraine, new drilling will start next year with an advanced probe that will take gas samples from as far as 1.8 miles below ground - deeper than the Golden Gate Bridge is long - to test the magnitude of the hydrogen trove, with the aim of extracting natural hydrogen by 2027 or 2028.
Mr. Pironon and Mr. de Donato have high hopes. When they started searching for methane gas left by the coal mines, they instead discovered hydrogen the deeper they went. A half-mile down, they found higher concentrations of hydrogen than had been reported anywhere else in the world, Mr. de Donato said.
"We might have a real hydrogen factory hidden under our feet," he said. "It's a cause for real excitement."
#247
JD Vance and Tim Walz on Tuesday both avoided talking about the main cause of global warming that is powering the kind of violent weather that struck the Southeast this week: the burning of fossil fuels.
Mr. Vance, the Republican vice-presidential candidate, used a rhetorical flourish during his debate with Mr. Walz to raise doubts about the established science of climate change. "This idea that carbon emissions drives all the climate change, well, let's just say that's true, just for the sake of argument," he said. His running mate, Donald J. Trump, has mocked global warming as "a hoax."
But Mr. Walz, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate who said "climate change is real" and spoke of the ravages of extreme weather, nevertheless shied away from any suggestion that the United States, the world's biggest historic emitter of carbon dioxide, should stop burning oil, gas and coal.
He spoke instead of the economic benefits of investing in clean energy and the need for the country to adapt to climate change.
And he boasted that oil and gas production has reached record levels under the Biden administration, in addition to gains in solar, wind and other nonpolluting energy sources. "We are producing more natural gas and oil than any time we ever had," Mr. Walz said. "We're also producing more clean energy."
Mr. Walz's comments echoed a similar line that Vice President Kamala Harris used during her debate with Mr. Trump last month. "We have invested a trillion dollars in a clean energy economy while we have also increased domestic gas production to historic levels," Ms. Harris said.
It's a subtle shift in messaging among Democrats. Just a few months ago, the White House was seeking to avoid the fact that President Biden, who has called for a transition away from fossil fuels, has in fact overseen the biggest oil and gas boom in United States history.
That began to change on Aug. 31, when Mr. Biden posted on social media that "on my watch" the United States has "responsibly increased our oil production to meet our immediate needs - without delaying or deferring our transition to clean energy."
According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, energy production in America is now at an all-time high.

"Democrats have made the political judgment that they don't get more votes by talking about reducing fossil fuel production," said Michael Gerrard, director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University. He said the decline of coal, oil and gas is implicit in the rhetoric from Ms. Harris and Mr. Walz, because the expansion in wind and solar power they seek would reduce demand for fossil fuels.
But, Mr. Gerrard said, Democrats feel no pressure from the environmental movement or young climate-minded voters to make that case explicitly.
"They believe they already have the environmental vote locked up and the people they're worried about are the swing voters, many of whom are in Pennsylvania, which is a fracking state," he said.
As a senator from California and a 2019 candidate for the presidency, Ms. Harris supported a ban on fracking, a technique for extracting oil and gas from deep underground that has been blamed for environmental and human health problems.
She has since reversed that position and promised during her debate last month with Mr. Trump that she would not implement a ban.
Still, Mr. Trump has insisted that a Harris administration would mean the end of fracking, and more broadly all oil and gas production. His energy policies are defined by his oft-repeated catchphrase, "drill, baby, drill." On Wednesday Mr. Trump was expected to be in Midland, Texas, for a fund-raiser with oil executives, according to two people familiar with the event. At a similar event in April at his Mar-a-Lago resort, Mr. Trump suggested oil executives should donate $1 billion to his presidential campaign because, if elected, he would roll back environmental rules that he said hampered their industry, according to people in attendance.
Mr. Vance also has shifted his position on energy. In 2020 he said "we have a climate problem in our society" and supported the development of clean energy.
At Tuesday's debate, Mr. Vance called clean energy "a slogan" and said that "if you believe" in climate change, the solution is to bring manufacturing back to the United States and develop "as much energy as possible in the United States of America because we are the cleanest economy in the entire world."
Mr. Walz responded that the Inflation Reduction Act, which President Biden signed in 2022 to provide more than $370 billion for wind, solar, batteries and other clean energy production, is doing just that. "All those things are happening," he told Mr. Vance.
The law also includes billions of dollars for nuclear energy, hydrogen and carbon capture technology for fossil fuel plants. Recently, the Energy Department completed a $1.52 billion loan guarantee to help a company restart a shuttered nuclear plant in Michigan. It also ensures new oil and gas drilling leases in waters off Alaska, as well as the Gulf of Mexico.
Democrats passed the bill, without a single Republican vote. Ms. Harris, in her role as vice president, cast the tiebreaking vote in the Senate.
Amanda Eversole, the executive vice president of the American Petroleum Institute, which represents the oil and gas industry, said her group was "encouraged that both candidates onstage last night were agreeing about the importance of America being an energy superpower." But she said, "When it comes to the specifics about what that means, there are a lot of unanswered questions."
Environmental groups were split on the Democratic ticket's approach of touting oil and gas development.
Collin Rees, the campaign manager at Oil Change U.S., an environmental group that wants an end to fossil fuels, called Mr. Walz's position "incompatible with the urgent climate action we know is necessary."
Others said the support from Democrats for clean energy and their clear acknowledgment of the climate crisis was more important than any nod to oil and gas production.
"JD Vance spewed utter nonsense," said Stevie O'Hanlon, the spokeswoman for the Sunrise Movement, an environmental group. "He made it clear that a Trump-Vance administration would do nothing to stop the climate crisis and prevent more disasters like Helene because they don't want to upset their fossil fuel billionaire donors."
Paul Bledsoe, a lecturer at American University's Center for Environmental Policy, said the refusal to discuss the root causes of climate change was "tone deaf" in the wake of a disaster like Hurricane Helene. "The focus on inflation and the economy seems to be driving a reluctance to talk about emissions reductions," he said, adding "They're missing the costs of climate impacts."
A study published in Nature earlier this year estimated that climate change-fueled weather disasters will cost the global economy $38 trillion per year by 2049.
#248
Los Angeles said on Thursday that it would build electric vehicle chargers and offer bigger rebates for the purchase of battery-powered cars in response to a new report that concluded that low-income people were being left behind in the transition to clean energy.
City officials said they would offer qualified residents up to $4,000 to buy used electric vehicles, up from $2,500, and build a network of fast chargers in underserved neighborhoods where few private companies have built such stations.
Los Angeles's effort comes as government officials are struggling to make electric vehicles and clean energy more affordable. Sales of new battery-powered cars have slowed in recent months partly because many of the models are too expensive for most car buyers.
Some of these challenges were highlighted in the report, released on Thursday by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, a city-owned utility; the National Renewable Energy Laboratory; and the University of California, Los Angeles.

"Working families in our city need to be assured that our city's clean energy future won't leave them trapped in the past," Mayor Karen Bass said. "Many working families - some working two to three jobs to make ends meet - won't buy or lease E.V.s if they don't have access to convenient, timesaving, cost-saving places to charge them."
The city's power provider - the largest municipal utility in the country - has been studying how Los Angeles can reach 100 percent clean energy for several years and estimates that doing so will cost as much as $87 billion. Thursday's report is the second comprehensive review by the city and the federal laboratory, this time with a focus on those who can least afford to participate in the energy transition.
President Biden has made it a major goal to move away from fossil fuels, the leading source of the emissions dangerously warming the planet. His administration wants to hasten the move to battery-powered vehicles, electric heating and cooling systems, and emissions-free electricity sources like wind and solar energy.
But making the transition to cleaner forms of energy is proving difficult, especially for lower-income people who cannot afford the large upfront costs of buying new cars, solar panels, heat pumps and other green devices.
At the same time, low-wealth communities are also more likely to be exposed to the harms of fossil fuel use because they are more likely to be near power plants or busy roads than wealthier neighborhoods.
California leads the United States in the shift to clean energy - it has more rooftop solar panel systems and electric school buses than any other state - and Los Angeles is a leader within the state.
But the study showed that wealthier residents in the city received most of the incentives for clean energy programs, like electric vehicle rebates and compensation for energy sent from rooftop solar to the electric grid. Of the $5.4 million the city spent on electric vehicle rebates from 2013 to 2021, just 23 percent went to underserved communities, the report found.
"In order to reach a 100 percent clean energy transition you really need to bring everyone along," said Kate Anderson, a strategy lead at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory and the agency's principal investigator for the study. "The transition is not going to just depend on the utility or the city making changes. It's going to depend on everyone making changes in their households. The affordability piece is a huge challenge."
Los Angeles County has the biggest concentration of low-income residents of any county in California. Many of the more densely populated areas are within the city and include places overdue for upgrades to the electric grid and other equipment.
Those who receive their electricity from the city utility also lack the kinds of bill assistance given to their neighbors who receive their electricity from the state's investor-owned utilities, like Southern California Edison, San Diego Gas & Electric and Pacific Gas & Electric.
The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power offered a discount of about $8 a month as of 2019 to disadvantaged customers. The state's investor-owned utilities offer discounts of as much as 35 percent off the total bill.
"That is a pretty significant gap and disparity, without question," said Cynthia McClain-Hill, president of the city board that oversees the utility. "Without a local referendum allowing us to establish and increase our low-income programs, we are unable to do that."
In the long term, the transition away from fossil fuels should reduce energy costs, many analysts say. But in the coming years, individuals, businesses and governments will have to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on buying new equipment and upgrading old gear.
"This transition is obviously going to be expensive," said Stephanie Pincetl, a professor at the U.C.L.A. Institute of the Environment and Sustainability and founding director of the California Center for Sustainable Communities. "Somebody is going to have to pay for all of this."
#249
President Biden wants more of America's cars and trucks to run on electricity, not gas. His administration has pushed that goal on multiple fronts, including strict new regulations of auto emissions and lavish new subsidies to help American consumers take as much as $7,500 off the cost of a new electric vehicle.
Mr. Biden's aides agree that electric vehicles - which retail for more than $53,000 on average in the United States - would sell even faster here if they were less expensive. As it happens, there is a wave of new electric vehicles that are significantly cheaper than the ones customers can currently buy in the United States. They are proving extremely popular in Europe.
But the president and his team do not want Americans to buy these cheap cars, which retail elsewhere for as little as $10,000, because they are made in China. That's true even though a surge of low-cost imported electric vehicles might help drive down car prices overall, potentially helping Mr. Biden in his re-election campaign at a time when inflation remains voters' top economic concern.
Instead, the president is taking steps to make Chinese electric vehicles prohibitively expensive, in large part to protect American automakers. Mr. Biden signed an executive action earlier this month that quadruples tariffs on those cars to 100 percent.
Those tariffs will put many potential Chinese imports at a significant cost disadvantage to electric vehicles made in America. But some models, like the discount BYD Seagull, could still cost less than some American rivals even after tariffs, which is one reason Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio and some other Democrats have called on Mr. Biden to ban Chinese E.V. imports entirely.
The apparent clash between climate concerns and American manufacturing has upset some environmentalists and liberal economists, who say the country and the world would be better off if Mr. Biden welcomed the importation of low-cost, low-emission technologies to fight climate change.
Mr. Biden and his aides reject that critique. They say the president's efforts to restrict Chinese electric cars and other clean-technology imports are an important counter to illegal and harmful trade practices being carried out by Beijing.
And they insist that Mr. Biden's trade approach will ultimately benefit American jobs and national security - along with the planet.
Here are the policy and political considerations driving Mr. Biden's attempt to shield American producers from Chinese competition.

Denying Beijing a new monopoly
China already dominates key clean-energy manufacturing in areas like solar cells and batteries. Mr. Biden's aides want to prevent it from gaining monopolies in similar industries, like electric vehicles, for several reasons.
They include climate concerns. Administration officials say Chinese factories, which tend to be powered by fossil fuels like coal, produce more greenhouse gas emissions than American plants.
There is also a central economic reason to deny China a monopoly: ensuring that electric cars and trucks will always be available, at competitive prices. The Covid-19 pandemic drove home the fragility of global supply chains, as critical products like semiconductors became hard to get from China and other Asian nations that the United States relied upon. Prices for consumer electronics and other products that relied on imported materials soared, fueling inflation.
Biden officials want to avoid a similar scenario for electric vehicles. Concentrating the supply of E.V.s and other advanced green tech in China would risk "the world's collective ability to have access to the technologies we need to be successful in a clean energy economy," said Ali Zaidi, Mr. Biden's national climate adviser.
Shoring up national security
Biden officials say they are not trying to bring the world's entire electric vehicle supply chain to the United States. They are cutting deals with allies to supply minerals for advanced batteries, for example, and encouraging countries in Europe and elsewhere to subsidize their own domestic clean-tech production. But they are particularly worried about the security implications of a major rival like China dominating the space.
The administration has initiated investigations into the risks of software and hardware of future imported smart cars - electric or otherwise - from China that could track Americans' locations and report back to Beijing. Liberal economists also worry about the prospect of China cutting off access to new cars or key components of them, for strategic purposes.
Allowing China to dominate E.V. production risks repeating the longstanding economic and security challenges of gasoline-powered cars, said Elizabeth Pancotti, the director of special initiatives at the liberal Roosevelt Institute in Washington, which has cheered Mr. Biden's industrial policy efforts.
Americans have struggled for decades to cope with decisions by often hostile oil-producing nations, which act as part of the OPEC cartel, to curtail production and raise gasoline prices. China could wreak similar havoc on the electric-car market if it drives other nations out of the business, she said.
If that happens, she said, "reversing that is going to be really difficult."
Biden needs the energy transition to create jobs
There is no denying that politics also play a huge factor in Mr. Biden's decisions. Simply put: He is promising that his climate program will create jobs - good-paying, blue-collar manufacturing jobs, including in crucial swing states like Pennsylvania and Michigan.
Mr. Biden is a staunch supporter of organized labor, and is counting on union votes to help win those states. He has pledged that the energy transition will boost union workers. He is betting their support for tariffs meant to protect American manufacturing jobs will dwarf any complaints from environmentalists who want faster progress on reducing emissions.
"One of the constituent groups in the Democratic Party that's really highly organized, that gets people out to knock on doors, is the labor movement, more so than the environmental movement," said Todd Vachon, a professor of labor studies at Rutgers University and the author of "Clean Air and Good Jobs: U.S. Labor and the Struggle for Climate Justice."
Those concerns have come into especially high relief given that many clean energy jobs are with young companies where workers aren't unionized, he added.
Mr. Biden put those concerns front and center when announcing his tariff decision last week.
"Back in 2000, when cheap steel from China began to flood the market, U.S. steel towns across Pennsylvania and Ohio were hit hard," he said at the White House. "Ironworkers and steelworkers in Pennsylvania and Ohio lost their jobs. I'm not going to let that happen again."
#250
Climate Groups Begin $55 Million Ad Campaign for Kamala Harris
Three of the ads frame Biden-Harris policies in terms of their economic, rather than environmental, benefits.
Several organizations focused on combating climate change joined forces on Monday for a $55 million advertising campaign in support of Vice President Kamala Harris, embracing what they describe as the economic upside of the Democratic Party's environmental efforts.
The campaign will include ads in at least six swing states: Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. It is being run by the L.C.V. Victory Fund, a political arm of the League of Conservation Voters; E.D.F. Action Votes, an affiliate of the Environmental Defense Fund; Climate Power Action, a communications organization; and Future Forward, one of the biggest super PACs in Democratic politics.
"When the choice is so stark between Vice President Harris and Trump, and we know it's going to be a close election, there was a recognition that we needed to join forces," Pete Maysmith, the senior vice president of campaigns at the League of Conservation Voters, said in an interview. The coalition, he said, "could put more dollars together jointly to communicate why this is such an important decision from a climate and energy perspective."
Three of the ads, shared with The New York Times before their release, frame President Biden's climate policies and Ms. Harris's prospective policies in terms of economic benefits rather than environmental ones, and also touch on economic issues not directly related to the climate.
"The goal of her presidency: strengthen America's middle class," one ad says. "We get there by investing in growing fields like advanced manufacturing and clean energy - good-paying jobs that don't need a four-year degree. Cap the price of drugs and strengthen Social Security."
The second ad focuses on Ms. Harris's time as San Francisco district attorney and California attorney general, noting that she led cases against oil companies whose operations polluted communities and against banks that foreclosed on homeowners. "Harris took on the most powerful interests, while Donald Trump has always stood with corporations that rip us off, and he always will," it says.
The third says Ms. Harris knows prices are too high, so she will "triple America's clean energy production" - saving families money, it says - and "take on big oil companies' price gouging."
The messaging is in line with that of the Biden-Harris administration. Mr. Biden enacted the country's largest investment in climate-change mitigation by signing the Inflation Reduction Act, but he and Ms. Harris have often promoted it primarily as a force that is benefiting working-class Americans by pushing companies to create manufacturing and construction jobs for green-energy projects.
"Kamala Harris's vision is focused on helping working families, from lowering energy bills to creating new jobs in growing industries like clean energy," Chauncey McLean, the president of the Future Forward PAC, said in a statement. "Donald Trump is focused on helping wealthy corporations like big oil companies make more money."

Ms. Harris's and Mr. Trump's platforms on climate and environmental issues are starkly different. Ms. Harris supports efforts to increase renewable energy use and lower carbon emissions through tax incentives and federal regulations, while Mr. Trump wants to undo many regulations and has mocked both renewable energy and the facts of climate change.
While polls show that many voters are worried about climate change, they generally rank the economy higher on their list of concerns. Mr. Maysmith said he believed a message connecting the two would resonate.
"Clean energy is cheaper energy," he said. "If she's looking at how can things be more affordable for voters, this is one way to do that."
#251
At the tail end of the hottest summer in recorded history, as wildfires tear through California and a hurricane heads toward Louisiana, both Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald J. Trump failed to say how they would fight climate change during their debate Tuesday night.
It was the final question posed during the 90 minute exchange, about an issue that moderator Linsey Davis of ABC News noted was "important for a number of Americans, in particular younger voters."
The outcome of this presidential election could be critical to determining whether the United States, the world's biggest historic source of the greenhouse gasses that are dangerously warming the planet, cuts its pollution enough to keep global warming within relatively safe limits. Scientists say the window for action is rapidly closing.
Ms. Harris acknowledged the problem, noting "the former president has said that climate change is a hoax and what we know is that it is very real."
"We know that we can actually deal with this issue," she said, but did not offer any specifics about how she would. Instead, Ms. Harris made a largely economic argument, noting that federal subsidies for clean energy, which includes wind and solar power, have created new jobs and spurred manufacturing.
And, in an unusual turn, Ms. Harris boasted that under the Biden administration, gas production has reached record highs. It's a point that until very recently the administration had been reluctant to emphasize. The burning of fossil fuels is the main driver of climate change and at the United Nations climate talks last year, the United States joined nearly 200 other countries in a pledge to transition away from coal, oil and gas.
"We have invested a trillion dollars in a clean energy economy while we have also increased domestic gas production to historic levels," Ms. Harris said on Tuesday.
Earlier in the debate, Ms. Harris suggested that developing more oil and gas was important to national security. "My position is that we have got to invest in diverse sources of energy, so we reduce our reliance on foreign oil," she said. "We have had the largest increase in domestic oil production in history."
The debate took place in Pennsylvania, a swing state that is pivotal to both candidates and is the second largest natural gas producer after Texas.
It was the second time in two debates that Mr. Trump, asked directly his plans for addressing the planetary threat, dodged the question entirely.
Instead, Mr. Trump repeatedly hammered Ms. Harris on fracking, and claimed that if she wins the White House, she would ban it and cripple fossil fuel production.
"She will never allow fracking in Pennsylvania if she won the election," Mr. Trump said. "If she won the election, the day after that election, they'll go back to destroying our country and oil will be dead, fossil fuel will be dead."
Hydraulic fracturing, commonly called fracking, is the process of extracting gas by pumping water, sand and chemicals at high pressure into underground shale formations. Many environmentalists oppose fracking because it can pollute groundwater, and it also extends the use of fossil fuels at a time when scientists say nations must transition to cleaner forms of energy.
Ms. Harris supported a national fracking ban when she served in the U.S. Senate and ran for president in 2019. Once she became Joe Biden's running mate in 2020, she disavowed that position.
"I will not ban fracking," Ms. Harris said Tuesday.
Ms. Harris noted that she cast the tiebreaking vote on the Inflation Reduction Act, which is providing more than $370 billion for wind, solar and other clean energy projects. But she stressed that the legislation also "opened new leases for fracking."
Mr. Trump is virtually incomprehensible on the topic of climate change. On Tuesday night, he said he was a "big fan" of solar power but then complained that solar farms take up too much space. He has railed against electric vehicles but then also said he was a "big fan" after receiving an endorsement from Elon Musk, the head of Tesla. Asked about global warming, the former president typically says the greater threat is "nuclear warming," by which he seems to mean nuclear war.
He has pledged to "drill, baby, drill" and shred President Biden's climate policies. He has promised to allow oil drilling across millions of acres of pristine tundra in Alaska, dismantle the Environmental Protection Agency, and withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement, as he did during his first term.
The Sunrise Movement, a youth-led climate group, expressed disappointment in Ms. Harris.
Stevie O'Hanlon, the spokeswoman for the group, said Ms. Harris "spent more time promoting fracking than laying out a bold vision for a clean energy future."
Others said Ms. Harris still managed to present a clear choice.
"The stakes in this election were on full display tonight, with one candidate offering an ambitious vision for a clean energy future and the other spouting incoherent lies and conspiracy theories," said Sarah Burton, the national political director for the Sierra Club, an environmental group.
#252
Heat, drought, flood and famine. Evidence of climate change is all around us.
If the planet is to avoid even more severe consequences from global warming, the world's leading energy agency says, consumption of oil, coal and natural gas needs to be reduced much more rapidly, and clean energy sources like wind and solar power need to expand at a far faster pace.
But the stock market doesn't seem to have gotten the memo.
Instead, the shares of a broad range of clean energy companies have been crushed lately, in a rout that encompasses just about every alternative energy sector, including solar, wind and geothermal power.
At the same time, rather than weaning themselves off oil, Exxon Mobil and Chevron, the two biggest U.S. oil companies, are doubling down. They have announced acquisitions that will vastly increase their oil reserves. Exxon intends to buy Pioneer Natural Resources, a major shale drilling company, for $59.5 billion. Chevron plans a $53 billion purchase of Hess, a big integrated oil company. These are enormous bets on oil for years to come.
It's a perplexing state of affairs. The evidence that carbon emissions are warming the planet is persuasive. Yet the stock market, which is supposed to be forward-looking, is treating alternative energy companies with disdain and big oil companies with respect.
There's something wrong here, obviously.
I think the problem resides with the stock market, not the scientists.
Benjamin Graham, the great value investor and Columbia professor, once said, "In the short run, the market is a voting machine, but in the long run, it is a weighing machine."
That means that eventually the market gets things right, but in the short run, it's prone to enthusiasms, snap judgments and myopic thinking.
That seems to be what's happening now.
The scientific consensus is clear. It sometimes seems there is a new and compelling study on climate change, with disturbing conclusions, every day.
Last month, for example, in its latest comprehensive report on the world's chances of achieving net-zero carbon emissions by the year 2050, the International Energy Agency, the world's leading energy authority, said the climate was warming all too rapidly. The probability of a benign outcome is receding, it said, yet odds will improve if the world shifts aggressively from fossil to alternative fuels.
In a separate study released this past week, a group of scientists said the planet probably had only a little over five years before global warming would exceed the most ambitious goal of the Paris climate agreement: warming of no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius, or 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, above temperatures that prevailed before the Industrial Revolution.
Breach that limit and there will be catastrophes far worse than what we have experienced so far, the study said. Already, the planet has warmed 1.2 degrees Celsius. Governments, companies and consumers around the world need to take aggressive measures to curb carbon emissions immediately, the study said.
If the stock market heeded such calls to action, you might expect that the alternative energy shares would be booming and that big oil companies would be pouring most of their money into renewable resources.
But in its collective wisdom, the stock market seems to be embracing a different and contrary vision.

Stock Losses
Hundreds of billions of dollars are, in fact, being invested in renewable energy projects, even if the stock market generally isn't favoring them right now.
The returns are ugly. The iShares Global Clean Energy E.T.F., an exchange-traded fund that tracks the entire industry, is down more than 30 percent this year. Even worse, since the start of 2021, it has lost more than 50 percent.
Narrower sectors are being punished, too. The Invesco Solar E.T.F. is down more than 40 percent this year and almost 60 percent since Jan. 1, 2021. The First Trust Global Wind Energy E.T.F. has lost about 20 percent this year and about 40 percent since Jan. 1, 2021.
Rising interest rates have increased costs and tempered consumer enthusiasm in many countries, reducing stock valuations for fast-growing companies that aren't churning out big profits. Renewable energy companies have been hard hit.
SolarEdge, which provides equipment needed to convert energy from solar panels into power that can be transmitted through electric grids, warned on Oct. 17 that demand for its products was lagging. The market responded harshly.
Shares of the company, which is based in Israel, dropped nearly 30 percent in a single day. A host of other solar companies followed. Enphase Energy, a rival firm in Fremont, Calif., has lost almost 40 percent since Oct. 17.
Wind energy companies haven't been spared, either. Shares of Orsted, the Danish wind turbine company, fell nearly 26 percent on Wednesday after it said it might have to write down as much as $5.6 billion on the value of its offshore wind projects in the United States.
One Orsted venture, South Fork Wind, a set of turbines being installed 30 miles east of Montauk Point, is scheduled to start sending electricity to Long Island before the end of the year. But the company canceled two projects, known as Ocean Wind 1 and 2, that were to supply New Jersey with green energy, and some of its projects for New York and Connecticut have run into trouble, too.
In October, New York State's Public Service Commission rejected requests from Orsted and several other companies - including BP and Equinor - for billions in electric rate increases to help defray their ballooning costs. The companies say that with inflation and higher interest rates increasing their costs, the viability of some of their projects in the New York metropolitan area is in doubt.
Betting on Fossil Fuel
Big oil company profits and revenue have flagged since last year, when energy prices soared after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
For the entire S&P 500, earnings per share in the third quarter grew only 2.7 percent from a year earlier, John Butters, a senior earnings analyst for FactSet, estimated. Exclude the big energy companies, though, and that total increased to 8.4 percent. That's because earnings per share for big, fossil fuel energy companies declined 38.1 percent, more than for any other sector.
Oil prices are volatile, and their trajectory in the years ahead is far from certain. But Exxon and Chevron are staking their futures on oil. Exxon's acquisition of Pioneer would be its biggest purchase since it bought Mobil in 1999. And Chevron will deepen its commitment to oil by acquiring Hess.
Though I know better, I can't stop thinking of Hess as "the green company." That's only because I'm an old New York Jets fan. Hess shares corporate history and a green-and-white motif with the Jets. Leon Hess founded the company, owned the team and liked the color green. But the Hess product line is petroleum-based. It's not a green company otherwise.
But no matter. Oil has been good to Hess's shareholders, and to shareholders of the three other companies. Over the last three years, Exxon has returned about 275 percent, including dividends; Chevron, 135 percent; Pioneer, 260 percent; and Hess, a whopping 310 percent. The S&P 500 returned about 32 percent.
As long as the world consumes oil, companies like these will be profitable, or so oil bulls say.
Plus, there is a wild card.
As the World Bank warned on Monday, if the war between Israel and Hamas widens, conflict in the Middle East could easily set off a steep surge in oil prices. An escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian war could make oil soar as well. So could any number of potential military or political conflicts.
If scientific findings dominate, oil could become a stranded asset, one that can't be sold. But the market consensus is that the viable life of Big Oil has a long way to go.
Confounding Choices
What are we to make of the messages the market is sending?
For one thing, I wouldn't view them as inevitable. Prices shift every minute, and despite its vaunted reputation, the stock market doesn't provide a guide to the future. Sometimes it can't see what's right in front of it, and it certainly can't see around corners. I remain hopeful, despite discouraging tidings from the stock market.
But I wouldn't dismiss the stock market's signals entirely. Market prices incorporate the views of an awful lot of people who can't agree on much, except, at a particular moment, on the appropriate price for a specific offering. In that sense, the market is, as Benjamin Graham said, a voting machine.
Pouring money into unprofitable ventures isn't a good strategy unless those ventures ultimately generate a great deal of cash. The jury is still out on many alternative energy companies, much as the world needs their products. Oil companies, on the other hand, are prized for their ability to gush cash.
But if you're seeking a guide to the future, don't count on the stock market. I expect it to rise over the long run, and to make fickle and foolish choices along the way.
#253
The window is closing for nations to reduce enough of the pollution that is heating the planet to avoid the most dangerous levels of climate change, according to scientists across the world. And the outcome of next week's presidential election could determine whether the United States and other countries meet that challenge.
If he returns to the White House, former President Donald J. Trump, who last month called climate change "one of the greatest scams of all time," plans to build on his first-term attacks on the environment when he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement and rolled back more than 100 environmental regulations.
In a second term, he has promised to end federal support for a clean energy transition and hamstring wind and solar development while expanding oil and gas production - including drilling in the fragile Arctic wilderness. He has said he would again withdraw the country from the Paris accord and potentially go further, blocking the United States from negotiating future global climate agreements.
Vice President Kamala Harris, who has called climate change an "existential threat," has not laid out a detailed plan regarding climate and the environment.
But Ms. Harris is widely expected to continue federal support for wind, solar and other forms of clean energy, along with electric vehicles, in an effort to bring clean energy manufacturing onto American shores while shifting the economy away from fossil fuels. In 2022, she cast the tiebreaking vote on the biggest climate law in U.S. history, the Inflation Reduction Act, and has pledged to fully implement it.
Although congressional Republicans may block new laws and the conservative supermajority on the Supreme Court has hemmed in the authority of the Environmental Protection Agency, a President Harris would be likely to try to use regulatory power to cut the emissions that are driving climate change. She is also expected to try to reduce the air and water pollution that is prevalent in marginalized communities.
Mr. Trump, on the other hand, plans a full-scale repeal of what he calls the Biden administration's "kamikazee climate regulations." His immediate agenda includes rescinding limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants and automobiles.
"Energy will be front and center in terms of a Day 1, early agenda," said Thomas J. Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance, a conservative research group that promotes fossil fuels. "It's an issue that unites Republicans nearly unanimously, and President Trump has been absolutely clear in terms of how he views these issues."
After beating Mr. Trump in 2020, President Biden quickly rejoined the Paris agreement, a voluntary pact among nearly 200 nations to curb climate change. At global climate talks last year, those nations agreed to transition away from fossil fuels. Mr. Trump considers the Paris accord "a rip-off" and recently told an NBC News reporter, "We'll take 'em out so fast your head will spin."
Several people close to the Trump campaign said there is also an effort brewing to convince Mr. Trump to withdraw from the underlying treaty, the United Framework Convention on Climate Change. The move could be challenged: While the Constitution gives the Senate the power to enter into treaties, it is silent on the question of termination. If successful, such a move could prevent the United States from participating in future global negotiations on climate change.
Allies of Mr. Trump have promised that this time around, the former president would be better positioned to dismantle environmental and climate rules, aided by conservative judges he appointed and loyalists he intends to install throughout the government.
Mr. Trump has promised to grant virtually all permits to drill oil - which he calls "liquid gold under our feet" - on public lands and waters, keep coal plants burning and make it easier to build gas pipelines. That would result in additional greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to another bill ion cars on the road, according to a study by Carbon Brief, a climate analysis site.
But Mr. Trump does not consider climate change a problem, or even a scientific reality. As Hurricanes Helene and Milton battered the Southeast, Mr. Trump ridiculed projections about climate-fueled sea level rise and assured people that if anything they will enjoy more beachfront property.
"The stakes when it comes to climate change literally could not be higher," said Peter Maysmith, the senior vice president of campaigns for the League of Conservation Voters, an environmental advocacy group that has spent $150 million on ads in the 2024 election cycle.
"We have one candidate who has been a climate champion, sued big oil and cast the deciding vote on the Inflation Reduction Act, running against somebody who calls climate change a hoax, makes fun of wind and solar, and denies the role that climate change plays in worsening extreme storms," Mr. Maysmith said.
Ms. Harris has moderated her positions since she served as a U.S. senator from California and ran for president in 2019. At the time she cosponsored a nonbinding resolution calling for a Green New Deal, which called for converting the electric grid to 100 percent clean energy this decade, declared clean air, clean water and healthy food to be basic human rights and endorsed free health care and affordable housing for all Americans. The resolution did not pass.
She also favored a ban on hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking, which is the process of extracting oil or gas from shale by injecting water, sand and sometimes chemicals at high pressure. The process uses large amounts of fresh water, and raises concerns about groundwater contamination.
Ms. Harris says she no longer wants to end fracking and as she campaigns now, she sometimes points out that domestic oil and gas production is at record levels.
Ms. Harris has said she wants to improve electrical transmission to better connect remote sources of wind and solar power with population centers. Improving the nation's electric grids could determine whether the United States can increase enough clean energy to meet its climate targets. The Biden administration has pledged to cut emissions roughly in half by the end of this decade. But it's largely up to Congress to address the problem.
Without legislation, a Harris administration would have limited tools to cut emissions further. The E.P.A., which imposed limits on pollution from power plants and vehicles under President Biden, could set new controls on big industrial polluters - steel and cement plants, factories, oil refineries and others. Ms. Harris could also use executive authority to limit new gas exports or drilling on federal lands, a prospect that fossil fuel executives said they fear.
"American energy is on the ballot," said Amanda Eversole, the executive vice president of the American Petroleum Institute, which represents the oil and gas industry.
Ms. Eversole said the industry association has been heartened to hear Ms. Harris drop her opposition to fracking. But, she said, Ms. Harris has been largely silent on whether she would make it more difficult for oil and gas companies to continue to lease land and waters for drilling.
"When you look at Donald Trump, he has a record on energy," she said. "The Harris campaign and the vice president herself has yet to really provide a substantive point of view on energy."
Earlier this year, Mr. Trump told oil executives dining at Mar-a-Lago that they should contribute $1 billion to help him win the White House because they will realize that much in savings after he kills regulations that affect their industry, according to several of those in attendance.
Prof. Michael Oppenheimer, a climate scientist at Princeton University, said it's unlikely that Mr. Trump could halt the country's transition away from fossil fuels because federal subsidies for wind, solar and other clean energy are now part of federal law, making them more difficult to erase than regulations. Yet Mr. Trump would certainly slow progress, and he called that dangerous.
"We're a bit in the soup," Professor Oppenheimer said. "If we started 30 years ago when a lot of scientists were telling us the fact that the Earth was warming and that human beings appeared to be responsible, we'd be in a lot better position than we are today."
Now, he said, "we can't afford to slow down at all, we have to speed up."
#254
President Biden's key climate law has long drawn the ire of former President Donald J. Trump and his running mate, Senator JD Vance of Ohio.
Mr. Trump has called for rescinding unspent funds included in the law, which contains tax credits and subsidies to incentivize companies to deploy more clean energy projects. Mr. Vance has also blasted the law as a "Green New Scam" and highlighted Vice President Kamala Harris's ties to the legislation, noting at a campaign event in August that she had "cast the deciding vote for the so-called Inflation Reduction Act that sent a lot of our resources to China."
On Tuesday, Mr. Vance is set to debate Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota, who has praised the Inflation Reduction Act for its "critical investments to reduce costs for families and combat climate change."
Despite Mr. Vance's critiques, residents in his state - including in the senator's hometown, Middletown, Ohio - have been big beneficiaries of Mr. Biden's Inflation Reduction Act. Many local leaders and residents say they do not want to see the new investments, which are already starting to revitalize the local economy, disappear.
Since the bill's passage in mid-2022, companies have announced more than $7 billion in clean energy investments in Ohio, according to an analysis from E2, an environmental nonprofit organization. Only six other states have surpassed that amount, according to the analysis.
Among the companies benefiting is the steel manufacturer Cleveland-Cliffs, whose facility in Middletown was awarded a grant of up to $500 million from the Energy Department. The grant is intended to help the company upgrade its steel mill so that it can use cleaner fuels like hydrogen or natural gas instead of coke derived from coal. The project is expected to create about 170 permanent jobs and up to 1,200 temporary union construction jobs.
The $500 million grant, which was awarded through a program largely funded by the Inflation Reduction Act, would benefit a steel mill where Mr. Vance's grandfather once worked, which was previously owned by Armco. In his book, "Hillbilly Elegy," Mr. Vance wrote that the city's steel mill was an "economic savior" that helped lift his grandparents up into the middle class.
Local leaders and residents have praised the grant, saying that it would help the town's economy, along with improving air quality.
Nathan Cahall, the acting city manager of Middletown, said the federal funding would be "outstanding" for the community, since it would create jobs and support the city's largest employer. The grant could also help generate more income tax revenue for the city, which would allow local officials to invest more in street and water improvement projects, he said.
"It's a wonderful opportunity for the city as a whole and our entire community," Mr. Cahall said.
Rachel McQueen, 43, a restaurant general manager in Middletown, said the grant could benefit the local economy and improve the city's air quality by reducing the facility's emissions. Ms. McQueen, who grew up about a mile away from the steel mill, said she remembered her house was "always dirty-looking on the outside" and her family constantly hosing down soot stuck to their cars.
"If they could do something to make it cleaner and more healthier, by all means, I think that's a great thing," she said.
William Martin, a spokesman for Mr. Vance, said the senator "obviously wants to see more investment in cities like Middletown, both in Ohio and all across the country." But he noted that the grant for Cleveland-Cliffs "made up less than 1 percent" of the total cost of the law, which is projected to exceed $800 billion through 2033.
"The vast majority of the bill was spent on Kamala Harris's weak, failed and dangerously liberal agenda," Mr. Martin said in a statement.
The law's tax credits and grants are intended to support battery, solar and wind projects across the country. It also contains tax breaks that consumers can claim to offset the cost of electric vehicles.
Thomas Pyle, the president of the American Energy Alliance, a conservative research group, said the bill had done little to help Mr. Vance's constituents and was instead enriching big corporations.
"The I.R.A. was just a massive corporate welfare bill," Mr. Pyle said. "I don't think it necessarily benefits his constituents in Ohio when you consider that a lot of the subsidies go to corporations."
It is unclear how much of the funding Mr. Trump would try to rescind if he is elected. Mr. Trump has criticized major aspects of the law, including the tax credits for electric vehicles, which he said were for "rich people" to purchase "luxury electric cars."
But environmental and development organizations in Ohio said that the clean energy investments spurred by the climate law had already started to revive manufacturing in the state. They warned that if the money were to be rescinded it would deal a serious blow to Ohio's economy.
"This is Appalachia's biggest opportunity since the New Deal," said Amanda Woodrum, a co-director of ReImagine Appalachia, a nonprofit organization focused on development in the Ohio River Valley. "We are finally bringing hope back to the region. People are excited about these investments in coal country."
The Ohio Environmental Council, a policy organization, estimates that more than $10 billion of clean energy investment has poured into the state during the two years since the legislation was enacted, leading to the creation of more than 13,000 jobs.
Carol Kauffman, the executive director of the council, said that the development of solar and electric vehicle battery production facilities was helping to re-establish Ohio as a manufacturing powerhouse and that businesses are fearful such investments could be obstructed.
"The business community really wants us to move forward," she said. "They don't want us to be a buggy-whip economy."
She added that she was disappointed that the Trump-Vance campaign has called for repealing important aspects of the Inflation Reduction Act, and suggested that Mr. Vance does not realize how many clean energy jobs have been created in his home state.
Harris campaign officials have seized on Mr. Vance's comments to try to convince voters that a Trump win would damage manufacturing communities like Middletown.
"JD Vance is cheerleading Trump's plan to destroy jobs in his own hometown," Joseph Costello, a Harris campaign spokesman, said in a statement.
The likelihood that the climate law will be repealed will depend on not just who wins the presidential election, but also which party controls Congress. Some Republican lawmakers have called for the law to be substantially rolled back. But it could be difficult for Congress to repeal the Inflation Reduction Act, given that a significant amount of funds are flowing to conservative districts.
In August, a group of House Republicans sent a letter to Speaker Mike Johnson warning that "prematurely repealing" the energy tax credits would "undermine private investments and stop development that is already ongoing."
Still, if Mr. Trump is elected, his administration would most likely have the power to make it harder for businesses to access clean energy tax credits and to impede the flow of federal funds. And energy researchers and business groups expect that Republicans would try to roll back parts of the climate law, in part because they will be looking for ways to offset the cost of extending Mr. Trump's tax cuts, much of which are set to expire in 2025.
Nick Messenger, a senior researcher at the Ohio River Valley Institute, a nonprofit think tank, said the prospect that the law will face political interference had already had a chilling effect, slowing new projects. He noted that the Trump administration had close ties to the fossil fuel industry and that Mr. Trump would be under pressure in a second term to shift the federal government's focus away from green projects.
"Folks are trying to read the tea leaves," Mr. Messenger said. "Overall we're talking about billions of dollars that have been pledged so far for the state, and I definitely think those would be at risk if the I.R.A. would either formally or informally be repealed.
#255
California air quality regulators have tightened carbon standards in an attempt to further cut emissions from fuels in the state's transportation system.
Several members of the California Air Resources Board, a powerful body that can influence global policies, called the rule changes a critical step on climate amid an expected rollback of federal environmental efforts under President-elect Donald J. Trump.
But the complex regulations, which were approved at the end of a marathon meeting on Friday, have spurred political fights this year between various groups. State lawmakers from both parties have criticized the changes for their potential to hike California's gas prices, which are already among the highest in the nation.
The new restrictions have also triggered a dispute among environmental groups, researchers and industry officials over whether the California program disproportionately benefits the biofuels sector.
Here's what to know about the changes.
How is the California program changing?
California's Low Carbon Fuel Standard is a statewide, market-based program that requires significant cuts in the carbon emissions produced by transportation fuels. This includes the emissions associated with their production, conveyance and use by consumers. The transportation sector on the whole accounts for about half of the state's greenhouse gas emissions.
To comply, fuel producers must either reduce emissions in their own operations or buy credits from companies that sell fuels considered to be low in carbon. Such fuels include electricity for electric vehicles and renewable diesel, a biofuel that is chemically equivalent to petroleum diesel but derived from renewable biological sources such as plant oils and animal fats.
Fuel producers were previously required, by 2030, to cut carbon emissions over their fuel's life cycle 20 percent below 2010 levels. In a 12-2 vote at the end of a 12-hour meeting, the regulators tightened these standards, raising the 2030 target to 30 percent and adding a 2045 target of a 90 percent reduction.
"It's improving on what has been an incredibly successful program," said Liane Randolph, the board chairwoman.
The updates also included additional funding for zero-emission vehicle charging and new sustainability requirements for renewable fuels.
Will these changes increase gas prices in California?
A key point of tension is the concern that the changes could significantly raise gas prices. Oil companies already pass about 8 to 10 cents per gallon onto consumers as a result of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard program, according to the agency.
Last September, the agency estimated that an earlier version of the proposal could have hiked gas prices by 47 cents per gallon starting next year and could have potentially added $1.80 per gallon by 2040. However, officials have said that the estimates did not take into account many important factors that affect gas prices and also did not reflect the changes that ultimately passed.
"We have a lot of data and analysis that we have published that makes it very clear that it is difficult, if not impossible, to calculate exactly how a program like this affects retail gas prices," Ms. Randolph said.
Ms. Randolph added that the program would create competition in the transportation sector, which would give consumers more choice about the fuels they want to spend money on. It would also keep transportation costs lower overall for consumers, she said.
Danny Cullenward, a climate economist with the Kleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania, released an analysis of the amendments that found that they could increase gas prices by as much as $0.85 per gallon by 2030 and nearly $1.50 per gallon by 2035. Mr. Cullenward said he wrote the report as an independent academic project; he is also a member of a state advisory committee that prohibits him from having financial conflicts of interest with companies that participate in California's carbon market.
"We are talking about a program that is politically radioactive," he said.
Mr. Cullenward added that the agency's decision not to release an estimate of gas price impacts before the final vote last week could reduce trust in state regulators and hinder California's ability to approve further climate-related changes in the future.
Members on both sides of the aisle in California's state assembly have warned that higher gas prices could hurt their constituents. Nearly 13,000 residents signed a petition led by Republicans in the State Senate that urged regulators to postpone the vote on the amendments.
State Sen. Melissa Hurtado, a moderate Democrat, said that many of her constituents in the Central Valley were lower-income and relied heavily on their vehicles for transportation.
"At a time when people are already struggling to make ends meet, this is a slap in the face," Ms. Hurtado said.
The Western States Petroleum Association has also warned that the changes could increase costs. "At the end of the day, the consumers will be the ones who are impacted most," said Jodie Muller, the group's chief operating officer.
How will this affect California's climate goals?
The California Air Resources Board estimates that the program has eliminated 320 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions from gasoline and diesel since it began in 2011, an amount equivalent to roughly 85 percent of the state's annual greenhouse gas emissions.
The agency is projecting that its tighter restrictions will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 558 million metric tons between 2025 and 2045 - equivalent to about one and a half times the state's annual emissions.
Ethan Elkind, director of the climate program at the Center for Law, Energy and the Environment at the University of California, Berkeley, said the changes would "absolutely" make a significant dent in reducing transportation emissions by nudging people away from gasoline and providing incentives to move toward all-electric alternatives.
California also has tried to reduce fossil-fuel use through consumer product restrictions. The state this year banned the sale of new gas-powered lawn mowers and blowers. The state also has required that all new cars sold produce zero emissions starting in 2035, a policy that was championed by Gov. Gavin Newsom.
Why are some environmentalists opposed to the changes?
Some researchers and environmental groups have raised concerns about the program's focus on biofuels.
Some climate scientists have said that the program does not adequately take into account all of the emissions associated with the production of biofuels, such as underestimating those from deforestation in other parts of the world that supports agriculture used to make them.
Adrian Martinez, a deputy managing attorney for Earthjustice, an environmental law organization, said that the program had been a "biofuel boondoggle" in which a majority of the program's financial incentives had gone toward biofuels instead of electrification.
"We're not asking for perfection," he said. "There was plenty of opportunity to do more, and they didn't take it."
Ms. Randolph said that the board had directed staff in 2025 to further review the climate impact of biofuels to better understand if there were any changes that would be necessary.
What comes next?
With the board's approval, the changes will now be reviewed by the state's Office of Administrative Law. The board expects the changes to take effect in the spring of 2025, according to Ms. Randolph.
Since the Low Carbon Fuel Standard is a California state program, the federal government has no authority over the changes, Ms. Randolph said.
Dean Florez, a former State Senate majority leader and one of two board members who voted against the changes, wrote in a statement that the public beforehand had "little opportunity for recourse or input."
The leader of the State Senate, Mike McGuire, seemed to suggest in a statement that the Legislature could still intervene.
"Any new regulations must be open and transparent, which is why we're analyzing their actions and will do so in earnest come January when the Legislature convenes," he said.
#256
BP's new chief executive, Murray Auchincloss, promised a flexible approach to the shift away from fossil fuels as the oil giant reported a $3 billion profit in its latest quarter on Tuesday.
Mr. Auchincloss said in an interview after BP reported earnings that the company was pursuing what he called a "demand strategy." BP's shares rose nearly 5 percent in trading in London, where the company is based.
BP has a plan to become what Mr. Auchincloss called an integrated energy company. But in the meantime, "we see growing demand for energy right now across the globe," he said. "It is not slowing down."
BP is "going to invest in today's energy system, to help make sure that prices don't get out of control," Mr. Auchincloss said. "So that's investing into oil and gas," he added, while also putting money into alternative energy sources like biofuels and hydrogen.
Mr. Auchincloss was confirmed as chief executive of BP in January. The former chief financial officer had been serving in an interim capacity after the departure of his predecessor, Bernard Looney, over his failure to fully disclose personal relationships at the company.
In a presentation to financial analysts on Tuesday, Mr. Auchincloss seemed to suggest a more profit-oriented approach than the one pursued by Mr. Looney, who after becoming chief executive in 2020 began perhaps the most ambitious shift into renewable technologies among the major oil companies.
But Mr. Looney shifted his focus back toward oil and natural gas production early last year, after Russia's invasion of Ukraine helped drive oil and gas prices higher.
The leaders of oil companies, especially in Europe, face a difficult balancing act between demonstrating to customers and governments that they are serious about lowering emissions and appealing to investors, who insist on profitability and returns above all.
"The first thing investors want is to make sure they get performance," said Giuseppe Bivona, the chief investment officer of Bluebell Capital Partners, a hedge fund that has criticized BP over plans to reduce its oil and gas business while investing in areas like offshore wind power. The fund managers have said that BP lacks the expertise to succeed in the wind industry.
Indeed, BP said that last year it wrote off $1.1 billion in investments in offshore wind projects along the East Coast of the United States, which involved a joint venture with Norway's Equinor. Mr. Auchincloss acknowledged that BP had paid a "premium" to enter a business that has proved difficult, with projects encountering delays and higher costs.
In the meantime, the company's mainstay oil and gas production rose 2.6 percent last year. Supplies of liquefied natural gas - a chilled, compressed fuel transported by ships - rose by more than 20 percent.
Mr. Auchincloss said that oil output would continue to rise 2 percent to 3 percent a year through 2027 because of production increases in Abu Dhabi, Angola, the United States and elsewhere. He that there were projects on the drawing board that could prolong the output growth in later years if necessary. "We have some big decisions ahead of ourselves," he said.
BP said that, on average, the prices it received for oil and gas were about 20 percent lower in 2023 than in 2022, partly accounting for a drop in annual profit, from $27 billion in 2022 to $13.8 billion last year, which still ranked as one of its best years in a decade.
In cleaner energies, BP is now betting on businesses that are closer to the company's existing strengths in distributing fuel and servicing automobiles. For instance, the company's production of so-called biofuels that are made from plants and substances like cooking oil were up 18 percent. The company's portfolio of electric vehicle charging points rose by 35 percent.
#257
The Biden administration announced plans on Friday to award up to $7 billion to create seven regional hubs around the country that will make and use hydrogen, a clean-burning fuel with the potential to power ships or factories without producing any planet-warming emissions.
Hydrogen is widely seen as a promising tool to fight climate change, as long as it can be produced without creating any greenhouse gases. When burned, hydrogen mainly releases water vapor. Yet very little of this so-called clean hydrogen exists today. By awarding the grants, the Biden administration is trying to stand up an entire industry from scratch.
Dozens of regions competed for the money, which will be awarded to proposed hydrogen projects on the Gulf Coast (Texas and Louisiana) and in the Mid-Atlantic (Pennsylvania, Delaware and New Jersey), Appalachia (Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio), the Midwest (Illinois, Indiana and Michigan), the Upper Midwest (Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota) and the Pacific Northwest (Washington, Oregon and Montana). A proposed hub in California will also receive funding.
President Biden and Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm traveled to the Port of Philadelphia on Friday to announce the funding, which the president called "transformational."
"Clean hydrogen produced with resources like wind and solar, that lets us get us to this place where we're not putting more carbon in the atmosphere," Mr. Biden said. "All across the country, from coast to coast, in the heartland, we're going to build a clean energy future here in America, not somewhere else."
In theory, hydrogen could be used to help produce steel, cement, chemicals and fertilizer. It could also be used to power trucks, ships or airplanes or to produce electricity, all without emitting the greenhouse gases that are dangerously heating the planet.
A major challenge, however, is figuring out how to manufacture that hydrogen cleanly. Today, companies usually extract hydrogen from natural gas in a process that emits large amounts of carbon dioxide. But it is also possible to produce hydrogen without any emissions - by, for instance, using wind turbines or solar panels to power electrolyzers that can split water into hydrogen and oxygen. The catch is that making hydrogen this way is still two to three times as expensive as making it with natural gas.
To help jump-start a hydrogen economy, Congress approved $8 billion to create regional hydrogen hubs as part of the 2021 bipartisan infrastructure law. As part of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, lawmakers approved a hefty tax credit for companies that produce low-emissions hydrogen, in the hopes of driving down the cost of production.
Partly as a result of those laws, the Department of Energy estimates that the use of cleaner forms of hydrogen could grow to 10 million tons per year by 2030, up from virtually nothing today.
The gusher of federal money also kicked off a furious competition among states. The Department of Energy initially received 79 proposals for hydrogen hubs from states across the country before ultimately selecting seven. The hubs typically consist of networks of businesses, labor groups, researchers and local governments that have pledged to work together to produce, transport and use low-emissions hydrogen.
Each of the award winners plans to take a slightly different approach. The proposed hub in California, for instance, aims to produce hydrogen from renewable energy and use the fuel to power heavy-duty trucks and port operations in Long Beach, Los Angeles and Oakland.
Another proposed hub in Illinois, Indiana and Michigan plans to use a portion of electricity from existing nuclear reactors to produce hydrogen and would explore whether the fuel could be used in steel and glass production, refineries, power plants and airplanes.
By contrast, the Appalachian hub, which will span parts of Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio, is expected to continue to use natural gas to produce hydrogen, but companies will seek to capture carbon dioxide emissions from the process and bury it underground. That proposal was backed by Senator Joe Manchin, Democrat of West Virginia.
Some environmentalists and researchers have criticized that method, known as "blue hydrogen," and warned that it could still lead to high emissions if methane leaks from the process.
At least three of the hubs propose to make at least some hydrogen from natural gas while capturing any carbon emissions, although the Energy Department estimates that two-thirds of the overall investments will eventually go toward hydrogen made by renewable electricity.
"We need strong guardrails to ensure that U.S. hydrogen does not create an emissions mess, and that we are not subsidizing hydrogen that is clean in name only," said Erik Kamrath, who works on hydrogen at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group.
Not all of the $7 billion in funding will be spent at once. As a first step, the Energy Department will give awardees initial grants to create more detailed proposals for their hydrogen hubs. If the agency deems the projects viable, it will disburse more money over time - but that money is not guaranteed if any of the hubs prove unworkable.
"We're still a long, long ways away from creating a large-scale hydrogen economy," said Alex Kizer, a senior vice president at the Energy Futures Initiative, a Washington nonprofit organization. "Think of these hubs as laboratories of sorts to experiment with potential business models for hydrogen and to try to figure out some of the technological and infrastructure hurdles."
One big debate over hydrogen involves its use. There is widespread agreement that hydrogen should be used as a fuel when there are few other low-emissions alternatives, such as when making fertilizer. But some researchers say it makes less sense to use hydrogen to generate electricity or to fuel cars or heat homes when there are simpler, more efficient alternatives, like electric cars or heat pumps.
"I do worry that with all this money, there's going to be an effort to force feed hydrogen into applications where it's not all that effective at cutting emissions," said Sean O'Leary, a researcher at the Ohio Valley River Institute who has raised numerous concerns about the Appalachian hub proposal.
Many hydrogen producers are also still waiting for the Internal Revenue Service to release the rules regarding a lucrative tax credit for low-emissions hydrogen that could ultimately be worth hundreds of billions of dollars. That guidance has been the subject of intense lobbying. Environmental groups and some hydrogen companies have argued that strict safeguards are needed around the tax credit to ensure that emissions from the electricity sector don't rise when wind or solar power are diverted to produce hydrogen. But other business groups have warned that too-strict rules could throttle the industry altogether.
"The hydrogen hub money pales in comparison to that tax credit," said Bryan Fisher, a managing director at RMI, a nonprofit organization that supports clean energy. "Everyone's waiting to see how that gets resolved."
#258
The Biden administration on Friday issued its long-awaited plan to provide lucrative tax breaks to companies that make hydrogen, a clean-burning fuel, proposing new rules meant to ensure that the policy doesn't inadvertently lead to a spike in planet-warming emissions.
Hydrogen is widely seen as a promising tool to tackle climate change, as long as it can be produced without creating any greenhouse gases. When burned, hydrogen mainly emits water vapor, and it could be used instead of fossil fuels to make steel or fertilizer, or to power large trucks or ships.
But making hydrogen requires energy, and very little so-called clean hydrogen exists today. Currently, most hydrogen is made from natural gas in a process that emits planet-warming carbon dioxide.
Congress approved a tax credit last year to encourage companies to make more hydrogen from renewable energy and other carbon-free sources, setting off fierce lobbying by businesses focused on who should be able to claim the credit.
Experts have warned that some companies could claim to use wind or solar power to make hydrogen while indirectly causing emissions to go up, and they urged safeguards to prevent that. Some industry groups wanted more lenient rules around the credit, so that a broader range of projects could qualify.
In the guidance issued on Friday, the Treasury Department largely sided with those urging tighter restrictions.
To qualify for the full tax credit, companies would typically need to use clean electricity from newly built sources, such as wind and solar farms, to run electrolyzers that split water into oxygen and hydrogen. Starting in 2028, those electrolyzers would have to run during the same hours that the wind or solar farms were operating.
Many hydrogen developers and environmental groups praised the proposal. Without those restrictions, they said, hydrogen producers could draw vast amounts of power from the existing grid and trigger a spike in greenhouse gas emissions if coal- or gas-fired power plants had to run more often.
"The U.S. has the highest tax subsidy for hydrogen in the world, so we think it should have the highest stringency for what counts as clean," said Eric Guter, vice president of hydrogen for Air Products & Chemicals Inc., the world's largest producer of hydrogen. The company is developing a $4 billion project with AES in North Texas that will use wind and solar energy to generate hydrogen.
But other industry groups criticized the rules, saying they could prevent many early hydrogen projects from being developed.
The American Clean Power Association, which represents major wind, solar and transmission companies, said the requirement to match hydrogen production with clean electricity on an hourly basis by 2028 was too stringent.
That provision "will discourage a significant majority of clean power companies from investing in green hydrogen manufacturing and facilities," Jason Grumet, chief executive of the group, said in a statement.
The Treasury Department will accept comments from the public for 60 days and could make changes before finalizing the plan.
Some nuclear power producers, for instance, had asked that the tax credits be available for hydrogen made from existing nuclear plants. But the administration postponed a decision on that question, instead asking the industry for more information. Very few nuclear plants are expected to be built in the near future.
Cost is currently the biggest hurdle to making hydrogen cleanly. While some companies around the world have used wind, solar or nuclear power plants to run electrolyzers and make hydrogen without any emissions, that process costs around $4 to $6 per kilogram of hydrogen. That's about two to three times as expensive as making it with natural gas.
The hydrogen tax credit was meant to bridge that gap and jump-start a new industry, by providing up to $3 for every kilogram of "clean" hydrogen that companies produce over the course of a decade.
But defining what counts as "clean" turned out to be contentious.
Most of America's electricity still comes from coal and natural gas plants, so if a company were simply to plug a bunch of electrolyzers into the existing grid to make hydrogen, emissions would very likely rise. Similarly, if a hydrogen company tried to use electricity from an existing wind or solar farm, other coal or gas plants might have to run more often to compensate for the lost power. Without safeguards, several studies suggested, the tax credits could inadvertently lead to hundreds of millions of tons of extra carbon dioxide being emitted.
To avoid that outcome, the Treasury Department proposed several restrictions. To earn the full tax credit, hydrogen producers would have to draw on new sources of clean electricity built within the past three years. That could include a new wind farm or investments that expanded the capacity of an existing nuclear plant. Those plants would have to be located in the same grid region as the hydrogen factory. And, starting in 2028, the electrolyzers could only run in the same hours that the clean power was available.
Some hydrogen companies said the proposed rules could be difficult to follow. Wind and solar power don't run all the time, and trying to match hydrogen output to renewable fluctuations on an hourly basis would increase costs, they said.
"This policy will make it harder for everyone," said Jacob Susman, chief executive of Ambient Fuels, a clean hydrogen developer that had been planning roughly $700 million in new projects. Still, he said his company would try to work with the new rules.
Other companies and experts said the new rules around hourly matching could spur innovation. One U.S. startup, Electric Hydrogen, is making an electrolyzer designed to ramp up and down with solar and wind output. The new rules could give that sort of technology a leg up over the less-flexible electrolyzers made in China, the company said.
"There will be a lobbying blitz around the final rule," said Rachel Fakhry, policy director for emerging technologies at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. "We're watching closely to make sure there aren't any new loopholes that will be harmful for emissions or consumers."
It is still unclear how much clean hydrogen the United States will actually produce in the coming years. Although the Biden administration has laid out a strategy to produce 50 million tons of clean hydrogen by 2050, more than 50 times what is produced today, there are steep obstacles, including setting up systems to transport hydrogen and finding buyers for the fuel.
To that end, the Energy Department is also spending $7 billion to create hydrogen hubs around the country to connect producers and buyers, while setting up programs to stimulate demand for hydrogen and reduce the cost of electrolyzers.
"There are an awful lot of tools in our clean hydrogen tool belt that we didn't have before," said David Turk, the deputy secretary of energy. "There's a huge opportunity here."
#259
President-elect Donald J. Trump and oil and gas executives have championed each other. But his victory may prove to be a mixed blessing for the industry.
The former president's return to the White House is likely to usher in more permissive regulations that let companies drill more on federal land and ship more natural gas overseas.
Yet commodity prices and corporate profits could well fall if Mr. Trump pursues policies that send American oil and gas production - the highest in the world - higher still. The former president has urged companies to "drill, baby, drill" and pledged to cut energy bills by at least half, without specifying how he would do so.
Oil executives acknowledge that prospect but say the risk that prices fall during Mr. Trump's second term is worth accepting if he makes it easier for them to sell energy to other countries and finds ways to increase demand for oil and natural gas.
"We're willing to trade short-term downside for long-term certainty," said Steve Pruett, chief executive of Elevation Resources, an oil and gas producer in Texas, who voted for Mr. Trump.
U.S. oil prices fell Wednesday morning before recovering their losses by the end of the day as traders struggled to figure out what effect Mr. Trump's election would ultimately have on the industry. The stock market issued a clearer verdict: An index of domestic oil and gas stocks, including Exxon Mobil and Chevron, climbed more than 5 percent.
Harold Hamm, executive chairman of the shale producer Continental Resources, cheered the election result as "a monumental win for American energy."
"President-elect Trump has been a steadfast champion of deregulation and unleashing the power of domestic energy production," said Mr. Hamm, a longtime Republican donor who contributed to Mr. Trump's re-election effort.
Oil and gas interests gave around $75 million to Mr. Trump's presidential campaign, the Republican National Committee and affiliated committees, according to the environmental group Climate Power.
Mr. Trump, whose campaign did not respond to a request for comment, is poised to re-enter office during a period of uncertainty in the global oil market. After several years of relatively high crude prices and robust profits, companies are staring down the possibility that they may soon be pumping more oil than the world needs.
Oil prices, though well above the level most companies require to make money, have fallen around 10 percent from a year ago as the United States and other oil-producing countries have opened the taps further. U.S. oil output stood at 13.4 million barrels a day in August, up roughly 20 percent since Mr. Trump left office in January 2021, when prices and demand were still depressed by the pandemic.
The recent oil-price slide has led to narrower corporate profits and lower prices at the pump, which now average around $3.11 a gallon for regular gasoline, according to the motor club AAA.
Natural gas prices are down, too, with producers in gas-rich regions like West Texas and Pennsylvania running out of ways to transport the fuel to places where there is demand for it.
While there is little the president can do to fundamentally alter those market dynamics, executives are hoping that Mr. Trump can help at least somewhat. The industry hopes he will alter permitting to make it easier to build pipelines and secure permission for new natural-gas export terminals.
President Biden paused approvals for gas export facilities this year, a decision that was deeply unpopular among oil and gas companies. A federal judge ordered the administration to lift the pause.
Building the infrastructure required to send natural gas overseas, where it is likely to fetch higher prices, could help U.S. producers, UBS analysts wrote in a recent note to investors. Of course, that would run counter to Mr. Trump's stated aim of lowering energy prices.
Mr. Trump is also widely expected to make it easier to secure leases to drill for oil and gas beneath federal land and water.
"The scale of production growth might depend more on market dynamics and investor appetites, but cost structures could improve," wrote analysts at ClearView Energy Partners, a research firm based in Washington, referring to how Mr. Trump could help the industry.
One thing is clear: Mr. Trump is likely to be pulled in different directions on energy issues.
Some in the oil industry, especially those who only drill, process and transport oil and gas, would be happy for the new president to follow through on gutting the Inflation Reduction Act, which includes generous subsidies for renewable energy and electric cars.
But Republican lawmakers who represent districts that have attracted new investments have urged modifying, rather than dismantling, that law.
Even some large oil companies have expressed support for some parts of the law and are likely to ask the new administration to carry it out in ways that help them.
Companies like Exxon have said their plans to invest in things like hydrogen production will depend on how the federal government decides what kinds of hydrogen are eligible for tax incentives - an interpretation that the Biden administration has not yet made official.
#260
As pale morning light flickered across the Seine, Capt. Freddy Badar steered his hulking river barge, Le Bosphore, past picturesque Normandy villages and snow-fringed woodlands, setting a course for Paris.
Onboard were containers packed with furniture, electronics and clothing loaded the night before from a cargo ship that had docked in Le Havre, the seaport in northern France. Had the cargo continued by road, 120 trucks would have clogged the highways. Using Le Bosphore and its crew of four prevented tons of carbon emissions from entering the atmosphere.
"The river is part of a wider solution for cleaner transport and the environment," Captain Badar said, his eyes scanning other vessels carrying wares up and down the Seine. "But there's much more that we could be doing."
As the European Union steps up its battle against climate change, it needs to decarbonize freight transport, responsible for a quarter of global greenhouse gas emissions.
To get there, it is turning back to a centuries-old solution: its rivers. With 23,000 miles of waterways spanning the European Union, officials see a huge potential to help take trucks - the biggest source of freight emissions - off roads. The European Green Deal, the European Union's decarbonization blueprint, would turn rivers into highways and double barge traffic by 2050.
There's a lot of room for improvement. Today, rivers carry less than 2 percent of Europe's freight. By comparison, around 6.5 million trucks crisscross Europe's roads, accounting for 80 percent of freight transport. Rail accounts for around 5 percent.
If rivers are to handle more traffic, much of Europe's decades-old waterway infrastructure, including ports and locks, will need upgrading. A warming planet adds to the challenge: Droughts in recent years have grounded some transport on the Rhine, and pose risks to the Seine.
While the Seine isn't the most heavily trafficked river in Europe - that is the Rhine, which flows through Germany and the Netherlands - the ambition is to turn it into one of the main experimental hubs for the climate transition.
"We are working on a transformation to get businesses to massively shift their logistics routes," said Stéphane Raison, the president of France's main port operator, Haropa, which is investing over 1 billion euros (or $1.1 billion) in the Seine effort.
Turning Toward the River
Before leaving Le Havre for Paris, as a heavy snow fell in the dark, Le Bosphore's crew packed containers tightly into the cargo hold, checking a manifest as a gantry crane swung overhead.
Le Bosphore, part of a 110-barge fleet run by Sogestran, France's largest river transport company, will head to Gennevilliers, a port five miles outside Paris that is a distribution hub for the capital region's 12 million consumers. The trip will take around 30 hours.
The Seine could carry many more barges like Le Bosphore, which is longer than a soccer field and saves 18,000 truck trips a year between Le Havre and Paris. The government hopes to draw four times as much freight to the river as the 20 million metric tons it handles now each year.
To achieve that, Haropa has been accelerating an expansion of Le Havre port, which sits at the mouth of the Seine, in a bid to attract ships from the larger ports of Rotterdam in the Netherlands or Antwerp, Belgium. Cargo deposited at those ports is then driven to France on trucks.
At its five other port terminals on the Seine, Haropa is adding electrical stations that allow ships to plug in while docked, rather than running engines.
While much of Europe's barge fleet is still powered by diesel, a small but growing portion is being adapted for biofuels. Electric boats are coming onto the market. Hydrogen-powered prototype barges are also being developed.
Companies like Ikea and river transport start-ups are helping to propel the movement. They are developing carbon-free last-mile delivery services to appeal to consumers - and to get ahead of strict environmental rules that European cities are imposing to limit heavy, polluting vehicles.
A Chain of 'Cleaner Transport'
Eight hours after sailing from Le Havre, Le Bosphore pulled into Rouen, a major stop for river cargo to and from Paris. Around 10 a.m. a fresh four-person crew, led by Captain Badar, boarded for a weeklong shift, and the trip toward Paris resumed.
Barge traffic on the Seine has increased just 5 percent from a decade ago. While the government is trying to engineer an acceleration, "rivers have been neglected for too long," said Captain Badar, the third generation of riverboat captains in his family. He is among a rare breed. Many riverboat captains in Europe are nearing retirement age, and there's a shortage of qualified personnel, a problem that risks curbing the hoped-for growth in river traffic.
For centuries, Captain Badar noted, rivers were practically the only way to ferry goods through France: The ancient symbol of Paris is a boat. But waterways fell out of favor as trucks and trains dominated transport in the 20th century, especially after World War II, when highways and rail tracks expanded across the continent.
Governments support those industries "because they have powerful lobbies and unions," Captain Badar said, navigating past a medieval castle built by Richard the Lionheart as the sun brightened the afternoon sky.
"Now we're starting to talk about the environment, and it would be best to see the river as part of a wider chain of cleaner transport."
France's largest supermarket chain, Franprix, is ahead of the game. It has transported goods by barge for a decade to its 300 Parisian stores. Workers unload 42 containers each morning near the Eiffel Tower. That saves 3,600 truck trips a year on highways and has cut Franprix's carbon emissions 20 percent, the company said.
Kitchen Cabinets and Coffee Beans
Le Bosphore pulled into Gennevilliers port the next morning before dawn, docking alongside other barges laden with wares for Parisian businesses. A crane unloaded three layers of containers from the hold, placing them on the pier, where forklifts stacked them to the side. Despite the voluminous cargo, Le Bosphore had consumed the fuel of only about four trucks on its entire trip.
Across the port, an experiment was underway to make the last mile of delivery more environmentally friendly: a hulking warehouse, set up in a 2022 deal between Haropa and Ikea, the Swedish furniture giant, to create a carbon-neutral way to deliver goods using the Seine.
Pallets packed with Ikea kitchen cabinets and couches, ordered online less than 48 hours earlier, were loaded onto a barge that would take them to central Paris. There, they would be put onto electric trucks and delivered to customers.
The process isn't completely decarbonized - the barge to central Paris burns fuel, as do the trucks from Ikea's factories in Poland and Romania - but the arrangement allowed Ikea to take the equivalent of 6,000 trucks off Paris streets last year, said Emilie Carpels, director of Ikea's river project.
Other ventures are aiming to be more cutting edge.
Europe's first hydrogen-fueled river barge, the Zulu, is expected to start operating in the spring. Designed by Sogestran, it can carry up to 320 metric tons, or the contents of around 15 trucks. "We are moving toward a future of increasingly clean transport," said Florian Levarey, the project director.
For Fludis, a French start-up, that future is already at hand. Its president, Gilles Manuelle, founded the company around two boats that run on electric batteries, and a fleet of electric delivery bikes.
Around 7 on a recent morning, a dozen crew members loaded one of the small barges with boxes of coffee beans, copier paper, kitchen towels and other goods to be delivered to French bistros and businesses. As the boat sped silently past the Louvre for its first drop-off, workers onboard loaded their bikes with orders, and sped onto the streets as soon as the captain docked.
"We're starting off small," Mr. Manuelle said. "But it's little solutions like this that can grow much bigger, and help play a role in reversing global warming."
Back in Gennevilliers, the crew of Le Bosphore filled the now-empty hold with French goods for export: flour, lumber, luxury handbags and Champagne. By 2 p.m. it would begin a cruise back to Le Havre, where the crew would unload and then start all over again.
"I've known for a long time that the river was the most ecological means of transport," Captain Badar said, easing back into the helm. "Now we need for policymakers to really make it happen," he added. "The potential is huge."
#261
For eons this has been a quiet, unremarkable place. Thousands of square miles of flat land covered in shrubs and red dirt. The sun is withering and the wind blows hard.
It is exactly those features that qualify this remote parcel of the Australian Outback for an imminent transformation. A consortium of energy companies led by BP plans to cover an expanse of land eight times as large as New York City with as many as 1,743 wind turbines, each nearly as tall as the Empire State Building, along with 10 million or so solar panels and more than a thousand miles of access roads to connect them all.
But none of the 26 gigawatts of energy the site expects to produce, equivalent to a third of what Australia's grid currently requires, will go toward public use. Instead, it will be used to manufacture a novel kind of industrial fuel: green hydrogen.
This patch of desert, more than 100 miles from the nearest town, sits next to the biggest problem that green hydrogen could help solve: vast iron ore mines that are full of machines powered by immense amounts of dirty fossil fuels. Three of the world's four biggest ore miners operate dozens of mines here.
Proponents hope green hydrogen will clean up not only mining but other industries by replacing fossil fuel use in steel making, shipping, cement and elsewhere.
Green hydrogen is made by using renewable electricity to split water's molecules. (Currently most hydrogen is made by using natural gas, a fossil fuel.) The hydrogen is then burned to power vehicles or do other work. Because burning hydrogen emits only water vapor, green hydrogen avoids carbon dioxide emissions from beginning to end.
In the Pilbara region of Western Australia, and in dozens of spots around the globe endowed with abundant wind and sun, investors see an opportunity to generate renewable electricity so cheaply that using it to make green hydrogen becomes economical. Even if only some of the projects come to fruition, vast stretches of land would be duly transformed.
The project is one example of a global gamble, worth hundreds of billions of dollars, being made by investors including some of the most polluting industries in the world.
Last year, government subsidies sped up action in the European Union, India, Australia, the United States and elsewhere. The Inflation Reduction Act, the Biden administration's landmark climate legislation, aims to drive the domestic cost of green hydrogen down to a quarter of what it is now in less than a decade through tax incentives and $9.5 billion in grants.
"We are about to jump from the starting blocks," said Anja-Isabel Dotzenrath, who once led Germany's biggest renewable energy company and now runs BP's gas and low-carbon operations. "I think hydrogen will grow even faster than wind and solar have."
Not everyone sees it that way. Challenges loom on every level, from molecular to geopolitical.
Some energy experts say green hydrogen's business rationale is mostly hype. Doubters accuse its champions of self-interest or even self-delusion. Others see hydrogen as diverting crucial investment away from surer emissions-reduction technologies, presenting a threat to climate action.
Still, if the rosiest projections hold, green hydrogen in heavy industry could reduce global carbon emissions by 5 percent, if not two or three times that. In those scenarios, which are far from certain, hydrogen plays a crucial role in limiting global warming.
Fatih Birol, the Turkish economist who leads the International Energy Agency, said he seldom meets people who don't find green hydrogen alluring, with its elegant elementality. His organization forecasts that green hydrogen will fulfill 10 percent of global energy needs by 2050.
He said the agency's expectations were based on the fact that, if the world wants to limit warming to 1.5 degrees, "so much green hydrogen needs to be part of the game."
A 'Monstrous Challenge'
For green hydrogen to have a substantial climate impact, its most essential use will be in steel making, a sprawling industry that produces nearly a tenth of global carbon dioxide emissions, more than all the world's cars.
In climate lingo, steel emissions are "hard to abate." Blast furnaces, freight trains, cargo ships and the gargantuan trucks used in mining require heavy fuels like coal and oil. Even if they could be electrified (and, as a practical matter, today many can't be) they would strain grids enormously.
How much energy does a mine demand? A single ore hauler at the Christmas Creek mine guzzles gargantuan quantities of diesel every hour.
Each hauler operates nearly round the clock, covering enough ground in a year to circle the globe four times.
And that's just one truck among thousands of machines.
"We move a fair bit of dirt here," one Christmas Creek employee said, his wit as dry as the dust that caked his boots.
Day and night, two-mile-long ore trains, weighing more than 90 million pounds, depart Christmas Creek for Port Hedland. From the port, an endless stream of cargo ships (once again, burning heavy fuel) sail for East Asia, where ore becomes steel in coal-burning mills.
Nearly 40 percent of the world's iron ore comes from the Pilbara. Wherever you are, when you look out at the world, some of what you see is likely born of materials mined in and around Christmas Creek.
It wouldn't be an overstatement to call the mine's owner, Andrew Forrest, the most bullish of hydrogen's backers. When he said two years ago that he was going to rapidly switch the mining operations of his company, Fortescue Metals Group, to running fully on electric batteries, green hydrogen and green ammonia, a fuel derived from hydrogen, he was "met with mirth," he said recently.
"Back then there was a distinct, visible horizon of disbelief that the world could actually change," said Mr. Forrest, who is also one of the richest people in the world. He's adamant that there's a market, even if others see folly.
Both Fortescue and BP envision themselves as vying for the lead in green hydrogen and have announced plans to invest hundreds of billions of dollars in projects across dozens of countries beyond Australia, from Oman to Mauritania to Brazil and the United States. Those would still account for only a smidgen of the hundreds of millions of tons the I.E.A. and others say would be needed to create a market in which green hydrogen was cheap enough that steel and concrete makers were convinced to convert their operations.
Even though both companies are hugely profitable, Australia's government has made hundreds of millions of dollars available to them through subsidies and land allocations over the past two years, mostly in Western Australia, which is six times the size of California but has only 2 million people.
"Diesel has had 120 years to become plentiful and affordable," said Jim Herring, who oversees Fortescue's green industry development. "We want to scale hydrogen up in a tenth of that time. It's a monstrous challenge, honestly."
The 'Absolute Zero' Problem
To liquefy hydrogen for shipping, it must be chilled to negative 252.87 degrees Celsius, just shy of absolute zero, the theoretical temperature at which atoms are completely still. Hydrogen is also very flammable, making storage difficult.
They're just two of many obstacles.
Some doubts come from hydrogen's advocates themselves. "The economics of shipping aren't looking good," said Alan Finkel, the architect of Australia's hydrogen subsidies. "I was naïve, I think, in the past to see export being the main demand driver," he said in a recent interview. Instead, "There's a lot of sense in 'use it where you make it,' and Australia is really ideally set up for that," he said.
Some are even more skeptical.
Saul Griffith, a prominent inventor in renewable energy who started his career at an Australian steel mill, doesn't see a big role for green hydrogen. To replace fossil fuels, he said, "the electricity you use to make it would have to be ridiculously cheap. And if you have that, why use it to make hydrogen?"
He calls it "not a fuel that will save the world." Better to spend the money, he and others argue, on reducing renewable electricity costs so that nearly everything can be electrified.
Mr. Forrest says skeptics simply lack scientific knowledge. Fortescue, he said, will mix hydrogen with carbon dioxide so it is similar enough in consistency to liquefied natural gas that it can be transported in the same tankers.
"It's is as simple as it sounds," he said.
Mr. Forrest said he believed that, by decade's end, he would save his shareholders at least $1 billion a year by converting mining operations to green hydrogen, and that his company would ultimately produce hydrogen at dozens of sites worldwide. BP says it will be exporting large quantities of green hydrogen and ammonia by then, too.
The interest taken in hydrogen by oil and gas companies concerns some climate activists. While BP, for instance, has presented green hydrogen as part of its pivot toward cleaner energy, the company this year scaled back plans to phase down oil and gas production over the coming decades amid record industrywide profits.
Energy companies already produce most of the world's hydrogen fuel, but make it from natural gas, which is, of course, a fossil fuel. Some, including BP, stand to receive federal subsidies in the United States because the company plans to capture the carbon and store it rather than release it.
This is called "blue hydrogen," and some critics consider it a loophole in the Biden legislation that incentivizes fossil fuel production.
Ms. Dotzenrath said opposing blue hydrogen amounted to letting the perfect be the enemy of the good. "That's absolutely nonsense," she said. "It's ultimately all about the carbon intensity."
But in Australia, at least, BP's green hydrogen investments are pushing ahead.
Over the next few years, parts will be dismantled, piece by piece, to make way for a new green hydrogen plant.
It's emblematic of BP's bet on green hydrogen as an industrial fuel.
But the company's bigger gamble is on the proposed 2,500-square-mile solar and wind installation near the energy-hungry mines.
One of the impediments to huge green hydrogen projects is the short supply of electrolyzers, the machines that use electricity to split water molecules apart, isolating the hydrogen.
One issue is that China, which produces most of the world's solar panels, wind turbines and renewable energy tech, hasn't embraced electrolyzer production. Analysts said there was a shrewd calculus to that: China is heavily invested in coal, and much of that is tied to steel and cement production.
"It's still a question: Will China go all in on hydrogen?" said Marina Domingues, a clean technology analyst at Rystad Energy.
Despite the challenges, dozens of countries are betting on green hydrogen. Last year, Spain, Portugal and France agreed to build an undersea hydrogen pipeline by 2030 that would eventually supply the rest of Europe. Japan, Taiwan and Singapore, which import nearly all their energy, have also said hydrogen will be key to becoming carbon neutral economies.
And Fortescue, for its part, is going into the business of making electrolyzers. This month in Australia it is opening its first factory, the world's biggest.
The 'Champagne' of Energy
For Fortescue, the math is simple. Every year, each of its mines in the Pilbara expands outward at least a couple miles. While the company is developing 15-ton batteries to replace the diesel engines on some of its ore haulers, the mine at Christmas Creek, for instance, is already too sprawling for total reliance on batteries: New, battery-powered haulers just won't have the range for the mines' farthest reaches.
Fortescue expects 70 percent of its fleet to be running on batteries a decade from now - some powered by a mobile, 40-ton charger mounted on a vehicle resembling a military tank. But the rest would run on hydrogen or ammonia, replacing the billion-odd liters of diesel Fortescue uses annually.
BP is taking a more measured approach. Many of its global projects aim to produce blue hydrogen, which is cheaper, for now. Its green hydrogen projects in Australia, including the repurposed refinery near Perth, will come online in stages over a decade or longer.
Nevertheless BP, too, sees an inevitable shift toward green hydrogen driven by increasingly stringent regulations in the United States, European Union, Japan and South Korea.
In an "accelerated scenario" that envisions more ambitious emissions-reduction targets set by the nations of the world, BP predicts that, by 2050, green and blue hydrogen will be the predominant fuels in steel production in those countries and will also account for between 10 and 30 percent of fuel in aviation and between 30 and 55 percent in shipping.
"Hydrogen," Ms. Dotzenrath said, "is the champagne of the energy transition."
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/11/climate/green-hydrogen-energy.html?searchResultPosition=33
#262
General Motors and Hyundai said on Thursday that they would look for areas where they could collaborate on new vehicles, supply chains and technologies in a bid to cut costs and move faster.
The two automakers said they aimed to work together on internal combustion, electric and hydrogen-powered vehicles. But they did not provide details on where the joint work would be done, which executives would oversee the effort or how quickly they would come up with new models.
"G.M. and Hyundai have complementary strengths and talented teams," Mary T. Barra, G.M.'s chief executive, said in a statement. "Our goal is to unlock the scale and creativity of both companies to deliver even more competitive vehicles to customers faster and more efficiently."
The companies have signed a nonbinding agreement and said they would begin exploring possible areas of cooperation immediately.
Like other automakers, G.M. and Hyundai have invested tens of billions of dollars to develop electric vehicles that have so far fallen short of the lofty sales goals some executives had set. Consumer enthusiasm for battery-powered models has cooled in the past year, largely on concerns about the high prices of electric models and the challenges of charging them.
Sales of such cars and trucks are growing at a modest pace, though generally at a faster pace than for conventional gasoline vehicles. Many manufacturers, including Tesla, have cut prices to spur demand and are scrambling to reduce costs.
"This partnership will enable Hyundai Motor and G.M. to evaluate opportunities to enhance competitiveness in key markets and vehicle segments, as well as drive cost efficiencies and provide stronger customer value," Hyundai's group executive chair, Chung Eui-sun, said in a statement.
G.M. has been losing money on the electric models it makes but has said it expects those vehicles to become profitable by the end of the year. Ford Motor lost $2.5 billion on its electric vehicle business in the first half of this year, and has set up a development team in California to design models that are less costly to produce.
Automotive partnerships have had a mixed record of success, however. Several years ago, Ford invested in the electric vehicle start-up Rivian, but later decided to sell most of its shares. Ford also established a partnership with Volkswagen, but the companies have reduced their collaboration, and Volkswagen said this year that it would work with Rivian, mainly on software.
G.M. and Honda also formed a partnership to develop electric vehicles. Honda and its luxury brand, Acura, recently introduced two electric sport utility vehicles that are assembled at G.M. factories with G.M.'s battery technology. But the two companies have scrapped plans to work together on more models, and Honda has said it is solely developing its next slate of battery-powered models. Tesla has at different times worked with Toyota and Mercedes-Benz before shifting its strategy.
#263

The Biden administration plans to spend up to $6 billion on new technologies to cut carbon dioxide emissions from heavy industries like steel, cement, chemicals and aluminum, which are all enormous contributors to global warming but which have so far been incredibly difficult to clean up.
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said Monday that her agency would partially fund 33 different projects in 20 states to test methods for curbing emissions from a wide variety of factories and industrial plants, calling it "the single largest industrial decarbonization investment in American history."
Constellium, an aluminum producer, would receive up to $75 million to build a first-of-a-kind aluminum casting plant in Ravenswood, W.Va., that can run on cleaner burning hydrogen fuels rather than natural gas.
Kraft Heinz, a food manufacturer, would get up to $170.9 million to install electric boilers and heat pumps at 10 facilities across the country, where they would be used to generate the large amounts of heat needed for things like drying macaroni without directly burning fossil fuels.
Cleveland-Cliffs, a steel manufacturer, would get up to $500 million to help retire a large coal-consuming blast furnace in Middletown, Ohio, and replace it with two furnaces that use electricity to turn scrap into steel. The company would also test ways to produce steel using hydrogen.
While the projects themselves would put a relatively small dent in U.S. emissions, Ms. Granholm said the goal was to demonstrate novel technologies that can scale up rapidly and "set a new gold standard for clean manufacturing in the United States and around the world."
Heavy industry is one of the nation's largest sources of planet-warming pollution, accounting for roughly one-quarter of all emissions. Many factories burn coal or natural gas to produce the heat needed to create steam, temper glass or turn iron into steel. Cement makers emit carbon dioxide as part of the process of transforming limestone into cement. Chemical producers use oil and gas as raw materials for their products.
In theory, there are technologies that can cut emissions. Industrial heat pumps or thermal batteries could help factories generate heat from renewable electricity. Cement makers could capture and bury their carbon dioxide. Steel makers could use clean hydrogen instead of coal. But many of those solutions are expensive and in their infancy.
"It's different from the electricity sector, where widely available alternatives to fossil fuels like wind, solar and batteries have come down dramatically in cost," Morgan Bazilian, a professor of public policy at the Colorado School of Mines, said in a recent interview. "With industry, we haven't yet seen clear winners emerge at the price needed."
Policymakers have also been hesitant to crack down on industrial emissions for fear that factories and jobs could move abroad to places with looser environmental rules.
While the Biden administration has announced stringent limits for carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles and power plants, it has so far avoided similar regulations for industrial sectors like steel or cement. Instead, the administration has focused on funding new technologies in the hopes that they will get cheaper and become widely adopted.
Separately, various federal agencies have announced plans to buy steel, cement, asphalt and glass made with cleaner processes, in an effort to create a market for low-carbon industrial materials.
The money for the projects in Monday's announcement comes from the Energy Department's Industrial Demonstrations Program, which was funded by the 2021 bipartisan infrastructure law and the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act.
The 33 projects selected will need to undergo further negotiations with the agency before receiving final funding.
One is Sublime Systems, a startup exploring cleaner ways to make cement. Traditionally, cement manufacturers burn large quantities of coal or gas to generate temperatures in excess of 2,500 degrees Fahrenheit, which transforms limestone into lime and releases carbon dioxide as part of the chemical conversion.
In contrast, Sublime uses a process powered purely by electricity that doesn't require high heat or release carbon dioxide. The company has tested its technology at a small pilot facility, and an award from the Energy Department, worth up to $87 million, would help the company build its first commercial plant in Holyoke, Mass.
That funding is valuable, said Leah Ellis, chief executive of Sublime. Many novel technologies to cut industrial emissions "are too expensive for traditional venture capitalists and too risky for conventional project financiers," she said. Having the Energy Department share the costs of early projects "accelerates the scale-up of these technologies which must be developed and deployed globally as quickly as possible" to fight climate change.
The Energy Department could also fund several projects that use an emerging technology called thermal energy storage, which can take intermittent electricity from wind or solar farms to gradually heat up bricks or other materials, which can then be used to produce steady heat for industrial processes.
"The area that's often written off as the hardest to decarbonize is the industrial sector," said Ali Zaidi, President Biden's national climate adviser. But, he added, "these projects are such a great example of the breadth and diversity of technologies that we can deploy to do this decarbonization work."
#264
ThyssenKrupp, the largest steel maker in Germany, said Monday that it would eliminate up to 11,000 jobs by 2030, a decision that comes as the country struggled to overcome economic weakness that has hindered growth for nearly two years.
The overhaul is aimed at returning ThyssenKrupp to profitability in the face of pressure from Asian competitors and high energy prices. Compounding the challenges, President-elect Donald J. Trump has threatened to impose tariffs on all goods imported to the United States. ThyssenKrupp was among those hurt by the tariffs Mr. Trump imposed on steel and aluminum during his first term in office.
ThyssenKrupp said that it would reduce the amount of steel it produced each year down to no more than 10 million U.S. tons, from the current level, 12.6 million U.S. tons, which would allow it to eliminate 5,000 jobs. Another 6,000 jobs will be cut through the sale of business activities or turning to external providers, the company said without elaborating.
"Urgent measures are required to improve ThyssenKrupp Steel's own productivity and operating efficiency and to achieve a competitive cost level," the company said in a statement.
On Tuesday, ThyssenKrupp reduced the value of its steel division by 1 billion euros, or $1.04 billion, after posting a yearly net loss of €1.4 billion, or $1.2 billion. The company has been struggling for years to decarbonize its steel production, as the price of powering its existing coking plants has soared.
Germany, Europe's largest economy, has not had significant growth in the past two years. On Friday, the economy recorded 0.1 percent growth from July to September, but it was forecast to contract over the entire year. Economists do not expect to see a return to growth in 2025, unless the government can make significant changes quickly.
Dozens of companies have announced plans over the past few months to reduce their work forces in Germany. On Friday, the auto supplier Bosch said it would cut 5,500 jobs beginning in 2027. Ford Motor said Wednesday it would eliminate 4,000 jobs in Europe, primarily in Germany.
Workers at Volkswagen, Germany's biggest automaker, are planning to begin staging warning strikes in the coming days, as they fight management plans to reduce their numbers and close up to three of the company's 10 factories in Germany. In October, Volkswagen reported a 42 percent drop in quarterly profit and warned of an "urgent need" to cut costs amid growing competition from Chinese automakers.
#265
Five dry words - "transitioning away from fossil fuels" - led to a bitter diplomatic spat Tuesday.
A handful of petrostates, led by Saudi Arabia and Russia, ensured that a United Nations General Assembly resolution on climate change steered clear of such language, despite established scientific consensus that the continued burning of coal, oil and gas is rapidly heating up the planet.
It demonstrates how a handful of countries, with their own economic and political interests, can stymie global action on slowing down dangerous levels of global warming.
The General Assembly resolution is not binding. But words carry meaning and precedence in diplomacy. And the fight to excise that critical phrase on a transition from fossil fuels is part of a concerted yearlong diplomatic campaign by Saudi Arabia to make countries distance themselves from a commitment made last year at the global climate talks in Dubai to move away from oil, gas and coal.
The commitment, made at the COP28 climate talks last December, was vague on how to make such a transition. But it was the first time that such an explicit mention of decarbonizing the world's energy system was included in an international agreement. It opened the door to including similar language in subsequent agreements, such as the resolution that diplomats had been negotiating for weeks at the General Assembly in New York.
The European Union proposed an amendment that mirrored the COP28 agreement. It included a goal of tripling renewable energy capacity, doubling energy efficiency, and "transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems, in a just, orderly and equitable manner."
That amendment failed when it was put to a vote.
Saudi Arabia said it lacked "balance." Russia called it "cherry-picking" from the broader COP28 deal.
Fiji summed up the position of those in support of phasing out fossil fuels by saying, simply, "We need to be guided by science."
The resolution on the "protection of global climate for present and future generations of humankind" is an annual exercise, aimed at putting the General Assembly's stamp of approval on the previous round of climate talks.
Science notwithstanding, the triumph of fossil fuels is evident in the real world. Global carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels have increased from 2023 and are projected to reach a record 37.4 billion metric tons in 2024, according to new data from the Global Carbon Project.

Saudi Arabia has successfully opposed including similar fossil fuel transition language in some other international declarations, including at a United Nations-led biodiversity summit. But Saudi officials did not prevail in nixing fossil fuel transition language in the agreement reached at the COP29 climate negotiations in Baku, Azerbaijan, earlier this month.
#266
Tourists strolling along the banks of the River Thames in the heart of London will soon have reason to be grateful for a busy construction site on their path.
As it nears its scheduled completion over the next few years, the Bankside Yards project of shops, offices and 600 apartments will open up new public spaces and make it easier to walk between attractions such as Tate Modern and the Royal Festival Hall.
"It's going to be a missing link in this cultural sector along the river, turning a huge, impenetrable urban block into part of that cultural sequence of spaces," said Daniel Moore, an architect and the technical director of the project for PLP Architecture.
But the 5.5-acre development, expected to cost 2.5 billion British pounds (about $3.3 billion), has a greater significance than speeding up a scenic pathway.
Hidden inside the eight-building complex is a pioneering energy system that poses important questions about the pace of decarbonization in the United Kingdom and elsewhere.
Bankside Yards is using a "fifth-generation" combined heating and cooling network that can balance energy within each building and then between buildings by collecting unwanted heat, say from a refrigerator in a restaurant or a piece of office equipment that needs to be cooled, and carrying that heat to somewhere that needs hot water or domestic heating.
Electric-powered heat pumps on building rooftops and in each apartment or commercial space then adjust the temperature of the water by withdrawing or injecting heat into the pipes to provide the heating, cooling and hot water needed in each place.
"One apartment might be rejecting heat because they've got air conditioning on, but someone else is taking a shower and needs hot water," Mr. Moore said.
Marco Wirtz, a German engineer and expert on fifth-generation systems, said that "by connecting buildings with many different use types, the Bankside Yards project significantly enhances the efficiency of its network, making it one of the largest and most innovative implementations of fifth-generation technology in the world."
Not only can the energy system at Bankside Yards reduce the amount of energy needed to heat, cool and provide hot water to the complex, it also operates without fossil fuels, providing an important tool in the effort to reach net zero carbon emissions.
The most pressing question, according to Dr. Jan Rosenow, the European program director of the Regulatory Assistance Project, an energy policy nongovernmental organization, is why similar systems are not being rolled out at speed and scale everywhere, given that heating homes alone produces almost a fifth of all greenhouse gases in the United Kingdom.
Dr. Rosenow said the ability to slash the energy needs of Bankside Yards and fuel them entirely by renewable electricity again shows that we have solutions to reduce emissions but are not applying them at the pace needed.
"It's no longer a technology problem; I think the social and political aspects, cultural aspects, are actually more important when it comes to how fast you can move," he said.
Nicholas Gray, the sales and marketing director of the project's developer Native Land, said one of those factors, social attitudes, might be shifting because cleaner buildings "are what office tenants and residential buyers are increasingly looking for."
The first building in the complex, a 19-story office tower called Arbor, was completed in 2023 and is already more than 75 percent rented or under offer by tenants, including the environmental consultancy the Carbon Trust.
The fifth-generation network is the latest version of district heating, an approach commercially pioneered in the United States in the 1870s, in which buildings were heated through a shared network of pipes rather than having their own boilers or stoves.
Early versions used a central furnace to distribute steam at up to 390 degrees Fahrenheit, later moving to extremely hot water before successive generations of district heating lowered the temperatures to reduce the amount of heat lost from the pipes.
"Those high temperatures are why the corridors and lobbies of a lot of existing building are always overheating - it is typical to lose 20 percent to 40 percent of the energy that you're producing," said Giovanni Festa, a project director for Sweco, a Swedish-based engineering consultancy, who oversaw the design of the energy system at Bankside Yards.
A fifth-generation network is also known as an ambient loop because the water in the pipes is not far above the normal outside temperature - at Bankside Yards the water is below 77 degrees Fahrenheit. The complex's managers have negotiated supply deals with renewable electricity providers for the apartment heat pumps, which are the size of small refrigerators and are hidden in soundproofed cupboards.
Mr. Festa said the energy requirements of the Arbor building had been slashed by high-quality window glazing and design so that it used 30 percent less energy than current best practice standards.
After Bankside Yards reaches its scheduled completion in 2029, facility managers will review performance data to improve the system's efficiency, and weather forecasts will be used to fine-tune performance further.
"I think we're at least two or three years ahead of our competitors because other buildings being completed now are still using gas-fired systems," Mr. Festa said.
Another large ambient loop system is being built at the 1,600-apartment Silvertown development in East London but there are still relatively few such projects almost a decade after the term fifth generation was first coined by European Union researchers.
A report on district heating systems from Cardiff University's School of Engineering identified 74 fifth-generation networks in Germany, 16 in Switzerland and smaller numbers elsewhere, including three in China.
One of the largest projects in the United States using an ambient loop system and heat pumps is the Whisper Valley residential complex in Austin, Texas, which eventually plans to have 7,500 homes.
The British government estimates that around 20 percent of the nation's buildings could be served by district heating, but heating experts said there has been little government effort to promote the latest solutions in privately owned new construction and retrofits, or in government-owned buildings.
Jamie Osborn, a spokesman for the MCS Foundation, a British charity promoting decarbonization, said the obstacles to faster deployment include a lack of planning reform and poor public awareness.
While costs will vary between each project, Mr. Festa said that installing a fifth-generation system might cost slightly more than an older gas-based system but any extra investment would be recouped by energy savings. And the system's zero carbon emissions mean it would not need to be retrofitted as minimum carbon standards are lowered.
According to the European Heat Pump Association, 60,000 heat pumps were sold in the United Kingdom in 2023, compared to 720,000 in France, which has only a slightly larger population, helping France to cut its heating emissions more than 10 times faster.
The association's former secretary general, Thomas Nowak, now an executive at Qvantum, a Swedish-based firm promoting ambient loops, said the system "belongs at the center of every city" but it was hampered by a lack of knowledge among policymakers as well as ordinary consumers.
The sense that heating is an individual, rather than collective, task "is not unique to the U.K.," Nowak said, noting that the German government struggled last year when trying to impose heating reforms.
"It probably goes right back to when you wanted to decide who lights a fire in your cave," he said. "Maybe you did everything by yourself in the past but now we have the opportunity to share much better solutions in a way that the whole integrated system is more efficient for everybody."
#267
The British government and the Indian conglomerate Tata said on Wednesday that they would jointly invest 1.25 billion pounds, or about $1.6 billion, in the country's largest steel mill, in Port Talbot, Wales, to make operations there less polluting.
As part of the overhaul, about 2,800 of the company's 8,000 steel jobs in Britain will be lost over time, a spokesman for Tata said, in part because the electric technology will require fewer workers.
Still, the plan was, from the point of view of employees, an improvement on a proposal announced last year when Britain's Conservative government was in power. Both deals include the same £500 million in government support, but workers facing layoffs will now be offered the option for paid retraining for other occupations.
The government says this project will cut overall emissions in Britain 1.5 percent by shifting steel production to a process of melting down scrap metal - an operation that depends on the availability of this raw material and, some critics say, cannot be used for producing the highest-quality grades of steel.
It has not been easy to preserve Britain's steel-making industry, which has been in decline for decades. The governing Labour Party, led by Prime Minister Keir Starmer, is promoting clean energy investment as a pillar of its strategy for reviving a stagnant economy. It has argued that it is important to maintain the country's ability to produce steel and said it would allocate £2.5 billion in additional funding "to rebuild the industry and help it decarbonize."
"Port Talbot has always and will always be a steel-making town," said Jonathan Reynolds, Britain's business and trade secretary.
But the agreement announced on Wednesday fell short of the hopes of the unions, which had sought to preserve jobs by keeping part of the plant operating during the transition. "This deal is not something to celebrate," the Community Trade Union, which represents workers at the plant, said in a statement.
Tata, which acquired the Port Talbot plant and other European operations in 2007, has grown determined to stem its losses in Britain. The company closed one of the two blast furnaces this summer, and it was gradually winding down operations in Port Talbot, making it increasingly difficult for the plant to continue functioning in its traditional form.
The company has pledged to continue steel production at Port Talbot, but work will be reduced for a substantial period while Tata replaces the existing blast furnaces and other units, which make steel using coal, with electric versions that are less polluting. The new electric unit, though, will not be operating for at least three years.
"This complex and ambitious transformation of Port Talbot has the potential to make the plant one of Europe's premier centers for green steel-making," Tata Steel's chief executive, T.V. Narendran, said in a news release on Wednesday.
https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/11/business/steel-britain.html?searchResultPosition=12
#268
Ali Hajimiri thinks there's a better way to power the planet - one that's not getting the attention it deserves. The Caltech professor of electrical engineering envisages thousands of solar panels floating in space, unobstructed by clouds and unhindered by day-night cycles, wirelessly transmitting massive amounts of energy to receivers on Earth.
This year, that vision moved closer to reality when Mr. Hajimiri, together with a team of Caltech researchers, proved that wireless power transfer in space was possible: Solar panels they had attached to a Caltech prototype in space successfully converted electricity into microwaves and beamed those microwaves to receivers about a foot away, lighting up two LEDs.
The prototype also beamed a tiny but detectable amount of energy to a receiver on top of their lab's building in Pasadena, Calif. The demonstration marks a first step in the wireless transfer of usable power from space to Earth - a power source that Mr. Hajimiri believes will be safer than direct sun rays. "The beam intensity is to be kept less than solar intensity on earth," he said.
Finding alternative energy sources is one of the topics that will be discussed by leaders in business, science and public policy during The New York Times Climate Forward event on Thursday. The Caltech demonstration was a significant moment in the quest to realize space-based solar power - a clean energy technology that has long been overshadowed by other long-shot clean energy ideas, such as nuclear fusion and low-cost clean hydrogen.
If space-based solar can be made to work on a commercial scale, said Nikolai Joseph, a NASA Goddard Space Flight Center senior technology analyst, such stations could contribute as much as 10 percent of global power by 2050.
The idea of space-based solar energy has been around since at least 1941, when the science-fiction writer Isaac Asimov set one of his short stories, "Reason," on a solar station that beamed energy by microwaves to Earth and other planets.
In the 1970s, when a fivefold increase in oil prices sparked interest in alternative energy, NASA and the Department of Energy conducted the first significant study on the topic. In 1995, under the direction of the physicist John C. Mankins, NASA took another look and concluded that investments in space-launch technology were needed to lower the cost before space-based solar power could be realized.
"There was never any doubt about it being technically feasible," said Mr. Mankins, now president of Artemis Innovation Management Solutions, a technology consulting group. "The cost was too prohibitive."
Today, however, the calculus may be changing.
The advent of Elon Musk's SpaceX has brought a steep decline in the cost of rocket launches. From 1970 to 2000, the average low-earth-orbit rocket launch cost was around $18,500 for a kilogram, or 2.2 pounds, of weight; today, the cost has plummeted to as low as $1,500 a kilogram. That reduction has helped drastically reduce estimates for building power stations beyond Earth's atmosphere.
A 1980 review by NASA concluded that the first gigawatt of space-based solar power (enough energy to power 100 million LED bulbs) would cost more than $20 billion ($100 billion today). By 1997, NASA estimated that that number had dropped to about $7 billion ($15 billion today); now, it is estimated to be closer to $5 billion, according to a study conducted for the European Space Agency in 2022.
"I used to be a critic of space-based solar power," said Ramez Naam, a climate and clean energy investor. Mr. Naam is now actively seeking space-based solar companies to invest in. "The dramatically changing cost of space launches has changed everything," he said.
Space-based solar power requires wirelessly transmitting electrical energy across space using microwave or laser power beaming. Unlike laser beams, microwaves can penetrate clouds and rainfall, making them the prime candidate for maximizing solar capacity.
Still, there are engineering hurdles. Though Mr. Hajimiri's team at Caltech proved that the wireless energy transfer of microwaves in space was possible - and even beamed a detectable amount of energy to Earth - they did not beam enough power to Earth to convert it into a usable form.
"No one has demonstrated power beaming more than a few kilometers," said Paul Jaffe, a U.S. Naval Research Laboratory engineer specializing in power-beaming technology. Mr. Hajimiri thinks it can be done. The Caltech engineer says he is working on technologies that would enable a large array of lightweight, sail-like spacecraft, using billions of small transmitting antennas, to create a focused beam that could travel thousands of kilometers to Earth and carry megawatts worth of energy.
The scale of space-based solar power structures is also daunting. The most prominent building in space today is the International Space Station, which measures 357 feet end to end. Space-based solar power systems would be several thousand feet wide, and an army of robots would be needed to autonomously assemble the structures while in orbit.
In addition to overcoming technical challenges, researchers must also ensure the safety of wirelessly beaming power to Earth. Microwave and laser beams pose a known risk to human health when operated at certain power densities. Researchers say the power density of space-based solar would be designed to operate within limits set by international governing bodies. Still, no studies have focused on the effect of space-based beaming on human health, the environment or the atmosphere - a critical step for public acceptance of the technology.
Then, inevitably, there will be regulatory challenges. The transmission of radio waves from orbit - including telecommunication, GPS and weather satellites - requires licensing to prevent interference from different users. Solar-power satellites would likely need the approval of the International Telecommunications Union, a United Nations agency, to protect and license their operating frequencies.
The complexity of these challenges places the expected arrival of most space-based solar power projects in the 2030s or 2040s, should they ever get to that point. That's not stopping researchers from pressing forward with the dream of harnessing an uninterrupted, inexhaustible supply of energy from space.
Sanjay Vijendran, an engineer at the European Space Agency, spent much of his life's work on Mars exploration projects, but climate change brought his focus back to Earth. "Is there more that space could be doing to directly help with the climate crisis?" Mr. Vijendran recalled asking himself and his colleagues in 2020. The result was Solaris, a program he leads that will release a report by 2025 on space-based solar power's technical and economic feasibility.
Virtus Solis, based in Michigan, and Space Solar in the United Kingdom are among several start-ups working on space-based solar power. Government agencies - including NASA, the U.S. Air Force, the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, the European Space Agency and the China Academy of Space Technology - plan to share reports on space-based solar power within the decade. Since 2019, the U.S. Naval Research Lab has launched several demonstrations of power beaming.
Dr. Jaffe thinks there is no certainty that space-based solar power will work or even be necessary. "It could be that we are going to create a portfolio of alternatives that are good enough for our projected energy, and that makes space-based solar unnecessary," he said.
Mr. Vijendran is also ready to concede that space-based solar power might not work without proper funding. But he sees an absolute need to explore the option, particularly given how little money has been invested in the technology relative to other solutions.
"We're putting billions into nuclear fusion research each year," Mr. Vijendran said. "If you put a billion a year into space-based solar power, we will have this ready in 10 years."

























