
Energy transition cannot happen overnight or without ensuring affordability and energy justice for the poor. That is the message oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri conveyed on Tuesday at the India Energy Week as Sultan Al Jaber, CEO of UAE's national oil company ADNOC and the man who will lead COP28 climate talks, listened in.
BENGALURU: Energy transition cannot happen overnight or without ensuring affordability and energy justice for the poor. That is the message oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri conveyed on Tuesday at the India Energy Week as Sultan Al Jaber, CEO of UAE's national oil company ADNOC and the man who will lead COP28 climate talks, listened in."Unless we survive the present, we will not be able to go into the world of clean and green energy. We have to make sure our transition entails surviving the present and cushioning vulnerable from (energy price) volatility... We are actively conscious of the need to facilitate energy transition and in the interim insulate consumers," Puri told the ministerial session at the conference.The transition towards net zero has to be "a wave of managed change in the global energy portfolio" rather than an "event" and will require global coordination and access to skills, technology, and financing, Puri said underlining India's position on Western pressure for a more ambitious carbon reduction plan, especially for burning coal and fossil fuels, and climate funding.He said on the one hand advanced economies committed over ($)500 billion in funds to shield consumers and securing alternative fuel supplies by temporarily reverting to nuclear, coal and oil to fill the energy supply gap. On the other, some economies continue to exacerbate fuel poverty and food insecurity.Puri was cautioning against the pitfalls of pursuing unrealistic climate policies by referring to the recent situation in Europe after the US-led sanctions were slapped on Russian energy supplies.
"The energy crisis has a ripple effect on other sectors as well. Unprecedentedly high level of gas prices has created a fertiliser crisis which in turn has created food security concerns. The high energy and commodity prices have raised inflationary concerns, and many countries are facing recessionary fears," he added to buttress is point.To avoid these disruptions, Puri said, transition will be a ride that involves a variety of energy solutions towards net zero - drawing on renewables, nuclear, and advanced biofuels, as well as the critical role of gas in the energy transition, whether from current supplies of natural gas, LNG and LPG or into a future shaped by their low carbon alternatives in the form of hydrogen, ammonia and green LPG. 
"We are not investing enough to meet for future energy needs, and the uncertainties are setting the stage for a volatile period ahead," said IEA chief Fatih Birol.
PARIS: The global transition to clean energy is still far too slow to meet climate pledges and risks fuelling even greater price volatility, the International Energy Agency warned on Wednesday.
"We are not investing enough to meet for future energy needs, and the uncertainties are setting the stage for a volatile period ahead," said IEA chief Fatih Birol.
"The social and economic benefits of accelerating clean energy transitions are huge, and the costs of inaction are immense."
In its annual World Energy Outlook report -- published just weeks before the COP26 summit in Glasgow -- the IEA calculated that investment in clean energy projects and infrastructure would need to be more than trebled over the next decade if those pledges are to be met.
At the summit, countries will come under pressure to commit to decisive action to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, as pledged in the landmark 2015 Paris climate agreement.
The IEA -- which advises developed countries on energy policy -- said that renewables such as wind and solar energy continued to grow rapidly, and electric vehicles set new sales records in 2020, even as economies were bent under the weight of Covid-19 lockdowns.

However, "this clean energy progress is still far too slow to put global emissions into sustained decline towards net zero" by 2050, which the agency believes will help limit the increase in global temperatures to 1.5C.
The agency analysed two possible scenarios.
The first looked at the measures governments had already put in place or specific policies they were actively developing.
And while almost all of the increased energy demand until 2050 could be met by low emissions sources, annual emissions would still be roughly the same as today as developing economies build up their nationwide infrastructure, the IEA said.
Under this scenario, temperatures in 2100 would be 2.6C higher than pre-industrial levels.
The second scenario looked at promises made by some governments to achieve net-zero emissions in the future, which would see a doubling of clean energy investment and financing over the next decade.
If these pledges were fully implemented in time, demand for fossil fuels would peak by 2025, and global CO2 emissions fall by 40 percent by 2050, the IEA said.
Here, the global average temperature increase in 2100 would be around 2.1C, which would represent an improvement, but would still be way above the 1.5C agreed under the Paris accord, it concluded.
"Reaching that path requires investment in clean energy projects and infrastructure to more than triple over the next decade," Birol said.
"Some 70 percent of that additional spending needs to happen in emerging and developing economies."
The IEA argued that the extra investment might be less of a burden than some might think.
"More than 40 percent of the required emissions reductions would come from measures that pay for themselves, such as improving efficiency, limiting gas leakage, or installing wind or solar in places where they are now the most competitive electricity generation technologies," it said.
The report also highlighted that insufficient investment was contributing to uncertainty over the future.
"Spending on oil and natural gas has been depressed by price collapses in 2014-15 and again in 2020. As a result, it is geared towards a world of stagnant or even falling demand," the IEA said.
"At the same time, spending on clean energy transitions is far below what would be required to meet future needs in a sustainable way."
That means energy markets could face a "bumpy ride" if investment in renewables is not increased, the IEA said.
Several of Tamil Nadu's industries are both energy intensive and customer price sensitive, which is particularly precarious in the current time as energy prices are soaring and highly volatile globally. Energy efficiency and innovation and renewable process heating and cooling are therefore critical to business continuity and growth whilst also necessary for mitigating the greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change.
Investing in this sustainable industrial energy transition makes good business sense, as demonstrated by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and its partners in Tamil Nadu and elsewhere.
Coimbatore is home to a flourishing foundry industry serving pumps, automotive, machine, textile and other engineering industries. Energy costs account on average for 30%-35% of manufacturing costs in foundries, with the melting section consuming the lion's share of nearly 70%. Foundries can typically save 5%-10% on their energy bill with well-established energy efficiency techniques and better operating practices. UNIDO with Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) and the Coimbatore Industrial Infrastructure Association (COINDIA) supported the implementation of energy efficiency in micro, small and medium foundries in the Coimbatore region. At least 130 foundries implemented 253 measures with a cumulative investment of Rs30 crore. This resulted in energy savings of nearly 1,600 tonnes of oil equivalent, reduced greenhouse gas emissions by more than 15,500 tonnes and achieved annual cost savings of Rs23 crore.
The project documented 21 specific techniques of which eight typically require an investment of less than Rs2 lakh, seven require an investment up to Rs10 lakh and the remaining six need more than Rs10 lakh in investment. One foundry invested Rs44 lakh to replace conventional cupola furnace with energy efficient 12 pulse induction furnace with a payback of 1.6 years only. Another firm installed an efficient shot blast machine with Rs8.9 lakh with a simple pay back of 3.7 years. The replacement of an old motor with energy efficient IE3 motor achieved another foundry a pay back of 1.4 years on an initial investment of Rs2.8 lakh. The addition of variable frequency drive to an existing screw compressor at a cost of Rs2.9 lakh achieved a payback in eight months. Some foundries went further into renewable energy, with one foundry setting up a 1MWh solar plant at a cost of Rs495 lakh and expected pay back in 3.2 years.
COINDA has acquired energy monitoring instruments through the project to conduct energy audits in foundry and other sectors. Up to 50% state-level subsidies are now available for conducting an energy efficiency audit and up to 25% grant towards investment of recommended energy efficiency measures.
Vellore is home to a vibrant rice milling cluster. In collaboration with the ministry of MSME, UNIDO and partners are zooming in on replicable energy efficiency solutions to standardise and bulk procure these, and finance these from their future energy and costs savings through energy service contracts with Energy Efficiency Services Limited. So far, two technologies have been successfully demonstrated. The innovative LSU dryer system with an investment of Rs12 lakh saves more than 15% on fuel and over 65% on power and delivers a more uniform dried grain leading to lower milling losses, thereby achieving pay back in less than two years. Replacement of traditional boilers with energy efficient boilers with an investment of Rs60 lakh saves up to Rs23 lakh in annual fuel costs.

Energy efficiency goes hand in hand with clean-tech innovation, for which UNIDO works with BEE through the Facility for Low Carbon Technology Deployment (FLCTD). Annual innovation challenges are being organised covering six technology domains: space conditioning, waste heat recovery, pumping, electric energy storage, industrial Internet of Things (IoT) and industrial resource efficiency. Winning innovators are supported with technical advice, industry demonstration sites and partial grant funding to deploy and validate their innovations. So far 59 innovators have been selected from 559 applications, who are receiving Rs18 crore financial support. 18 innovations have completed independent validation and twelve thereof are already being commercialized.
Renewable energy is a further integral part of the industrial energy transition. Most efforts have focused on renewable power generation from solar and wind energy. Many industries do require thermal energy at low to medium temperatures, which can be achieved with solar thermal systems. With UNIDO's support Natural Capsules Limited in Puducherry installed 64 parabolic dish collectors each measuring 4.4sqm to produce hot water of 105C for its production. The system saves over 150 liters of diesel per day, which enables the company to recover their investment in the technology in three-and-half years. The Ranipet Tannery Effluent Treatment company is installing a system of crossed compound parabolic concentrators with total areas of 1,590 square meters to generate 1.5 ton steam per hour at a project cost of 353 lakh.
Energy efficiency is also achieved through productivity measures that reduce rejects and minimise rework. Energy efficiency is indeed an integral part of manufacturing excellence which is aimed at eliminating all wastages in manufacturing, or Swachh Udyog. This involves efficiency in using energy, material and water, effectiveness in terms of meeting customer requirements and maturity in the monitoring and predictive control of manufacturing processes.
The post pandemic industrial development scenario is being shaped by few global trends, including the reorganisation of global value chains, the further digitalisation of manufacturing, or Industry 4.0, and transition to low carbon and circular economy. These present a growth and diversification opportunity for India, provided its manufacturing can compete internationally. Energy intensive sectors like foundries, textile and food processing have no other choice than pursuing energy efficiency, clean-tech innovation and renewable energy based process heating and cooling.

The energy transition from fossil fuel to renewable may lead to massive migration of people from east and central to the west and southern India, predicted Professor Pradip Swarnakar of IIT-Kanpur who also heads the Just Transition Research Centre (JTRC) at the IIT. "It is because coal mines are located in eastern and central India while the solar power plants are mostly coming up in the west and south India," he added while setting the agenda of the media workshop in Kolkata.
With eastern states becoming mere consumers of power from generators of the same, there will be huge economic and social implications.
It is particularly critical for Bengal which alone has 300 coal mines, said Swati D 'Souza of the International Energy Agency (EIA). "Just Transition did not happen overnight. Germany has been on the path of transition since 1960 and it is still on," she added.
A report, on a mine closure in Assam and its far-reaching impact on life and livelihood in the region, which was released on the programme by Bengal's Pollution Control Board chairman Kalyan Rudra, was a case study for the journalists on how environmental and wildlife concerns led to the closure in Margherita coal mine in Assam with enormous socio-economic consequences. Strong institutional support in health care and education enhanced the resilience of the mining community against the adversities of mine closure.
"It is no point just aping the west. Even the best practice of the west can fail miserably in the east. We need to harmonize modern science with our traditional knowledge," said Kalyan Rudra. Somshankar Bose, a consultant with the World Bank, said, "Indian Government has set a target of 520 gigawatts (GW) of non-conventional energy by 2030; 62% through wind and rest is solar." India's current consumption is 400 GW.
JTRC, IIT-Kanpur in association with Climate Trends, also announced the Just Transition Writing and Research Fellowship for the duration of three months, a number of fellowships will be three in three languages, English, Hindi, and Bengali. Fellows will be offered a monthly stipend and mentorship at IIT-Kanpur, starting 2 September 2022, last date of application is September 16.


to Srijana Mitra Das at Times Evoke, he discusses why energy equity is crucial for a sustainable energy transition:
How do you define energy equity?
There are two dimensions to this. The first is inequality within energy systems, manifest in underprivileged people who don't have access to energy like electricity. Then, at a worldwide level, there is global energy inequality with wealthier countries consuming more energy per capita and in absolute terms than poorer countries.
Energy is vital in raising standards of living and enhancing development. It is critical in building and saving lives - in situations of intense heat, for instance, access to air cooling systems is an imperative. Energy access is also necessary to improve worker productivity. Inequality in energy access undermines economic activity and efforts to raise people out of poverty. Energy inequality translates to lower living standards which hurt the poor deeply. There are situations where poor people spend more of their incomes on energy than affluent families - at times, the poor spend more per unit of energy than wealthier people. As an example, energy delivered through a grid is less expensive than using batteries to power appliances - the latter shows absolute energy inequality. Poor people also often have older vehicles that are less fuel- efficient. So, they use more fuel to travel the same distance as others. These are just some ways poor people spend more on energy and can't save or invest in other important areas. Energy inequity traps them in a cycle of poverty.
Has the pandemic highlighted energy poverty?
The pandemic brought to the fore how the poor suffer the impacts of a crisis more due to their lack of access to energy. In the US, poorer communities suffered more because of employment conditions which exposed them to the virus. The poor couldn't stay at home, working on their computers remotely. Lacking energy access, they had to go out to earn their livelihoods. In many countries, the poor received inadequate healthcare, weakened by a lack of quality energy reflected in power outages, etc. The pandemic showed how inequality can actually kill and energy is a large factor impacting peoples' access to life-saving services
A BUNDLE OF INEQUITIES: Energy inequality is reflected in the dependence on unclean fuels which have severe health impacts that can further impoverish the vulnerable
Where does India stand in energy equity?
India has huge importance in terms of the energy landscape. India's had robust economic growth over the last 15 years. In the future, India is likely to join the US, China, Germany and Japan as the top five economies of the world. India is also projected to have the largest energy demand globally. So, what happens in India is very important in terms of the global energy system and efforts to decarbonise. But, alongside, the poor in India are particularly vulnerable in terms of energy poverty compared to the poor in more affluent societies. So, it's even more important to plan for greater energy access. The issue of energy equity or empowering poorer nations to get clean, sustainable energy which can help them grow exists at a global level - India is a very good advocate for this. But we must remember energy equity for marginalised communities within the national context.

Can energy poverty be reduced while the world aims at decreasing emissions?
One of the world's greatest challenges is to reduce energy poverty while supporting economic growth. It's important to prioritise basic energy access, from electricity to cooking technologies, etc., for the extremely poor. Alongside, developing countries need to broaden energy access for businesses and the middle class. What the climate situation does is to reduce some of the options. Clearly, we need to transition to lower carbon energy now.
India, which has the largest projected energy demand globally, must plan to transition as rapidly as possible while securing its ability to generate electricity through the near future. Advanced economies should help India achieve this - in the context of COP26, the world's richest countries should step up financing to help developing nations transition to a lower carbon economy while meeting their development needs.
How can the energy transition be made equitable or fair for those facing energy poverty?
This is a question of values and priorities - that means recognising the importance of a growth and transition dynamic that benefits all. Globally, energy efforts often serve the interests of the elite, not the
disenfranchised. Countries give lip service to this issue but it isn't followed up much. Media coverage like this is important to highlight the energy gap and keep the focus on efforts to solve it. This also helps in raising public consciousness which can lead to this issue becoming part of the dialogue. It's notable that India made a concerted effort to provide hundreds of millions of people access to electricity. Now, it's important to engage the energy marginalised and understand their needs. A study in India found that less electricity theft occurs when communities enjoy a more trusting relationship with the local electricity company. So, simple changes in attitudes towards people can also bring better impacts, including better bottom lines for energy producers.



Is energy equity core to the world's transition to sustainable energy?
Energy equity is paramount to the right type of energy transition. We don't want a world that is powered by renewables but where energy poverty still impacts poor people harshly. We don't need an energy transition in terms of only emissions and technologies - we need the right type of energy transition to empower millions. Energy equity is central to that.
#6

Arthur van Benthem, Associate Professor at Wharton, highlights how the 2024 US election could impact environmental policies, including Clean Vehicles and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards. He discusses the potential for policy rollbacks under a Donald Trump administration and the ongoing global trends toward electrification and renewable energy. Climate change remains a modest concern compared to other issues.
Which are some of the most important environmental policies in America that could be impacted by this election?
¦ There are quite a few but the Clean Vehicles policy comes to mind first. The US has a whole set of ambitious cornerstone policies, trying to transform the oil industry. However, these are not a done deal - they could be rolled back by a new administration.
Four measures are critical here - the first is the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards, meant to increase the share of electric vehicles (EVs) in new car sales from around 10% today to 56%. There is also a requirement for an additional 16% plug-in hybrid EVs. Second, there are regulations to electrify and clean up the heavy-duty truck fleet. The third is about California which has its own regulation that mandates an almost entirely electric car fleet by 2035. Finally, there are very generous tax credits in the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) for EVs.
Recently, several Republican politicians announced they will look to roll back some of these measures if the administration changes. It could even be the case that California will no longer be allowed to have its own stricter EV policies as they need an exception from the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for this. It remains to be seen if they can get that under a new administration.
How likely is an expanded fossil fuel industry under a potential Donald Trump administration?
¦ Trump has always been a very vocal supporter of this industry - the last time he was in power, he rolled back many policies, like fuel efficiency for cars, providing more space for using fossil fuels in transport and producing more oil and gas.

THIS-LIKE: Billionaire Elon Musk believes in climate change - but backs Trump
However, importantly, there are underlying trends in energy markets globally which affect the US too - these go deeper than what a single American administration can control. For instance, vehicle markets are moving towards electrification worldwide while renewable energy has been steadily growing cheaper - a Trump administration could slow these transitions down but it won't be able to prevent them.
What does fracking mean for both the US economy and the environment?
¦ Fracking is very important. The US was about to become an importer of natural gas - suddenly, fracking boosted production so much, the US is now an exporter. It's a huge industry, famed for giving the US energy independence and so much gas is produced locally now, the price is low. That's kept power prices down and made manufacturing relatively cheap.
Haunted, taunted, vaunted- an American election for the ages
There are two environmental dimensions here. You could say burning gas instead of coal is less carbon dioxide (CO2)-intensive as the former involves about half the amount. However, fracking also causes gas leakages into the air as methane emissions. On balance, most people think fracking is slightly better for the climate but there are environmental concerns, from earthquakes to waste water disposal and the disruptions of ecosystems due to well drilling.
Has Kamala Harris' support to fracking come as a surprise?
¦ It's actually a broad continuation of the Biden administration's approach. The Biden government has been pushing very ambitious environmental policies - however, for the most part, it's never said it would ban specific technologies. It just made it more attractive to go with the cleaner ones. Harris' support is a continuation of many steps which are already happening.
Donald Trump is partnered by Elon Musk, a proponent of clean energy - is there a paradox to this pairing?
¦ It is puzzling. Musk has repeatedly said climate change is an existential crisis and this motivates his projects. He's a big supporter of renewable energy while many policies Trump proposes are against the financial interests of that part of Musk's business empire. However, there could be more alignment here between the policies of a Republican administration on space travel and autonomous vehicles, such as lower corporate taxes, etc. Also, Musk has contracts with the department of defence, NASA, etc., from which he could possibly benefit further if Trump became President
Has there been any new understanding on climate change in Donald Trump's camp, given how America has been experiencing extreme weather events?
¦ Opinion polls conducted among both conservative and liberal voters in the US, asking how concerned people are about climate change and if they support measures to combat it, show this trend growing among both Democrats and Republicans - but the latter are, on average, more concerned than their representatives in Congress. We haven't seen much change in D.C. except fewer politicians today would say they don't believe climate change is real - they are now more likely to say, 'There are so many other things to worry about'. There hasn't been a huge change in the number of Republican politicians that vote pro-climate.
What would a potential Donald Trump administration mean for the international climate agreements America is part of?
¦ This will have a direct effect - the climate policies that might change in the US is what America will bring to the global table. Even if the US doesn't retreat from the Paris Agreement, it could offer a lower contribution.
The response of other countries becomes interesting then - the last time, the European Union increased its climate commitments when the US backtracked. However, it is hard to predict what could happen currently.
How much of a concern has climate change been in this American election - is there nuance, like linking surging migration to the US with climate impacts?
¦ It has actually played a relatively modest role, far behind inflation, the economy, reproductive rights and immigration. It's important to discuss the linkages between climate change and mass migration but that has not been a central part of the debate - this is more focused on what America is doing at the border. The connection between climate distress and migration hasn't been front and centre in how people envision this in America.

In a keynote address at the India Energy Week Conference in Goa, Petroleum Minister Hardeep Singh Puri emphasized the need for an orderly energy transition in India, balancing access to traditional fuels with a systematic shift towards cleaner energy sources.Rejecting the vilification of fossil fuels, Puri stressed the importance of maintaining energy affordability while advancing sustainability goals.
In a keynote address at the India Energy Week Conference in Goa, Petroleum Minister Hardeep Singh Puri emphasized the need for an orderly energy transition in India, balancing access to traditional fuels with a systematic shift towards cleaner energy sources.Rejecting the vilification of fossil fuels, Puri stressed the importance of maintaining energy affordability while advancing sustainability goals.According to S&P Global Commodity Insights, Puri highlighted the challenge of ensuring a smooth transition to renewable energy without compromising access to traditional fuel sources."The challenge is to make sure transition is done in an orderly manner so that we have access to traditional fuel and making predictable transition to cleaner fuel. Balanced and realistic dialogue is needed and not vilification of fossil fuel," he stated, underlining the importance of affordability in India's energy landscape.The International Energy Agency's recent report predicts significant expansion in India's role in global oil markets over the coming decade, driven by economic growth, population dynamics, and demographic shifts.Puri said, "Energy transition is important, but not over affordability.
And energy sustainability comes after that," he added.Puri underscored the importance of recent energy sector reforms in India, which have helped stabilize petrol and diesel prices domestically, even amidst global fluctuations.Leading Indian CEOs echoed Puri's sentiments, emphasizing the need for a diverse energy mix and public-private partnerships to address India's future energy needs.Vartika Shukla, Chairperson and Managing Director of Engineers India Ltd., stressed the importance of considering price points and leveraging partnerships to facilitate energy growth."We need to grow all kinds of energies for the needs of India tomorrow. We need to look at the price point of these energies, where the public private partnership can play a very important role," said Shukla.Arun Kumar Singh, Chairman of India's ONGC Ltd., highlighted the necessity of balancing conventional energy with renewables to meet India's evolving demands.Singh said, "As a national energy company in India, ONGC has to briskly walk both the ways, conventional and renewables."However, concerns were raised regarding potential policy backlashes and the necessity of continued investment in fossil fuel production.Haitham al-Ghais, Secretary-General of OPEC, emphasized the importance of multiple pathways in energy transition and the continued need for investment in fossil fuels to meet growing demand.Ghais said, "This is how we should look at energy transition. At OPEC we continue to invest, and we need hundreds of billions of investments over the next 20 years. We need to invest as demand is likely to continue to grow."Similarly, Qatar's Energy Minister Saad Sherida Al-Kaabi cautioned against dismissing fossil fuels entirely, noting their ongoing importance in meeting global energy needs.Kaabi said, "Renewable sources of energy do not completely solve the global energy needs. "It is not responsible to say we do not use fossil fuel. It is like humanity shooting itself in the foot".In a different perspective, Vickram Bharrat, Guyana's Minister of Natural Resources, highlighted the hydrocarbon discoveries offshore Guyana as a pathway to prosperity.Bharrat said, "The new hydrocarbon find offshore Guyana has made the world notice us. Our policy is very simple. Get hydrocarbons out of the ground as fast as possible and use that to build traditional sectors. The window on oil is closing, not so much for gas."He emphasized the country's commitment to responsible and sustainable hydrocarbon development, foreseeing significant oil production growth in the coming years.As discussions around energy transition continue, the conference provided a platform for global stakeholders to address the complexities of balancing traditional and renewable energy sources while ensuring affordability, sustainability, and continued investment in the energy sector. (ANI)

March 15 is celebrated as World Consumer Rights Day every year to create global awareness about consumer rights, protection and empowerment. Consumers International, the body that marks the event globally, declared the theme for 2023 as "Empowering consumers through clean energy transitions." However, not much has been done in India to involve consumers in the celebrations, even though there is a separate consumer affairs ministry at both the Union and state levels.
* Role of consumers in clean energy transitions
We as consumers of energy services have the potential to enforce action that accelerates clean energy transitions, so as to protect our lives from pollution of all kinds. Often at the climate change talks at global forums, the powerful nations put the onus of global warming on developing or poorer nations. The developed countries smartly prefer to outsource manufacturing of products that lead to pollution to units located in developing countries, that have fewer resources to avail clean energy sources.
Consumers suffer due to inadequate policy interventions lack of enforcement of existing laws to check pollution. But consumers can ensure action by having a say in the matter.
* Vehicular pollution a trouble
Though Indian vehicle manufacturers are coming forward to adopt newer technologies like change in vehicle engine design, and are shifting to less polluting and more fuel-efficient technology, the urban centres are fountain heads of all sorts of pollution including vehicular carbon emission. It's always difficult to breathe properly on city roads and red light points, where the traffic stops. Planning and construction of roads should be done in coordination with an efficient traffic management system.

Solar energy a way forward
Such has been sermonised about solar energy benefits, yet not much proactive steps are being taken to make the transition to solar energy en masse. Our villages and countryside have the potential to reap the benefits of solar energy, but we need to form farmer cooperatives to encourage them to install solar panels on farms. In our cities' residential complexes and mohallas too, cooperative societies can be formed to install solar panels in parks and on roof tops.
The costs, time involved and administrative burden of installation and maintenance must be eased. All subsidy schemes should be informed by the officials who should guide consumers in the direction. Poor standards of work, lack of long-term performance guarantees, inadequate maintenance and repair services in clean energy equipment can damage consumer confidence in the new technology, and should be dealt with.
Safeguards under the
Consumer Protection Act
After the 1986 Consumer Protection Act, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) was formed in 1988 as a quasi-judicial commission under the aegis of which the district level consumer forums and state commissions had started working.
With the fast inroads of e-commerce in marketing, the Government of India brought in Consumer Protection Act, 2019 to save consumers from exploitation. Under this act, the disputes are resolved much faster with the three tier quasi-judicial mechanism of district commissions, state commissions and national commission for resolving consumer disputes.
While the nomenclatures sound bold, but from a consumer's perspective, much work is yet to be done to bring in the required awareness about enforcing consumer rights through such forums.

The paper explains how massive subsurface salt deposits could be used as hydrogen storage tanks, to transfer heat to geothermal facilities, and to impact CO2 storage.
It also demonstrates how businesses with current salt expertise, such as solution mining, salt mining, and oil and gas exploration, may assist.
"We see potential in applying knowledge and data gained from many decades of research, hydrocarbon exploration, and mining in salt basins to energy transition technologies," said lead author Oliver Duffy, a research scientist at the bureau. "Ultimately, a deeper understanding of how salt behaves will help us optimize design, reduce risk, and improve the efficiency of a range of energy transition technologies."


Salt has an influential role in shaping Earth's subsurface layers. It is easily squeezed by geologic forces into complex and massive deposits, with some subsurface salt structures taller than Mount Everest. These structures and their surrounding geology offer a number of opportunities for energy development and emissions management, said study co-author Lorena Moscardelli, the director of the bureau's State of Texas Advanced Resource Recovery (STARR) program.

"The co-location of surface infrastructure, renewable energy potential, favourable subsurface conditions and proximity to markets is key to plan for subsurface hydrogen storage," she said. "STARR is currently engaged with emerging energy opportunities in West Texas that involve hydrogen and carbon capture, utilization and storage potential for the region."
Salt domes are proven containers for hydrogen used by oil refineries and the petrochemical industry. According to the paper, these salt formations could also be put to use as holding pens for hydrogen bound for energy production. What's more, the porous rock surrounding them could be used as a permanent storage spot for CO2 emissions. The study describes the potential benefits of co-locating hydrogen production from natural gas called "blue hydrogen" and CO2 storage. While the hydrogen is sent to salt caverns, the CO2 emissions generated by production could be kept from the atmosphere by diverting them to the surrounding rock for permanent storage.
With its numerous salt domes surrounded by porous sedimentary rock, the Texas Gulf Coast is particularly well suited for this type of combined production and storage, according to the researchers.
The study also touches on how salt can aid in the adoption of next-generation geothermal technology. Although the industry is still in its early stages, the researchers show how it can make use of salt's ability to easily conduct heat from warmer underlying rocks to produce geothermal power.
Bureau Director Scott Tinker said that because salt has a role to play in developing new energy resources, it's important that multiple avenues are thoroughly explored. He said that researchers at the bureau are playing a critical role in doing just that.
"Bureau researchers have been studying subsurface salt formations for many decades. For their role in hydrocarbon exploration, as part of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, for storage of natural gas, and now for their potential to store hydrogen," he said. "That's the remarkable thing about great research. It just keeps evolving, improving and finding new applications."

Niti Aayog will in Nov come out with a roadmap for energy transition, outlining a pathway to achieve the country's 2070 'net zero' carbon emissions goal, said the govt think-tank's CEO B V R Subrahmanyam, noting that while India is committed to climate-friendly growth, fossil fuels (mainly coal/lignite) will continue to drive the country's economic growth."This is one of the most challenging times for India. We have the challenge of growth, jobs and energy consumption, which we have to balance with environmental considerations. It is no longer about growth or sustainability but growth and sustainability," said Subrahmanyam at an event - Connect Karo 2024 - organised by research organisation WRI India."Niti Aayog is working with states in developing a roadmap for supporting energy transition across sectors... we will come out with a document in Nov," he added.
The Rs 35,000-crore capex allocation for energy transition announced in the Union Budget will have multiplier effect in areas like green fuel, green energy, green farming, and green mobility, among others, power sector players said.
Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled the Union Budget for 2023-24 in Parliament on Wednesday.
"Allotment of Rs 35,000 crore for priority capital investment for energy transition and net zero will help with multiplier effect spanning sectors such as green fuel, green energy, green farming, green mobility, green buildings and green equipment," Vineet Mittal, chairman, Avaada Group, said in his reaction to the Budget.
The industry has long been advocating harnessing Ladakh's higher solar potential, and allocating capital to create evacuation infrastructure to boost the industry. The GOBARdhan Scheme for promoting a circular economy with a total investment of Rs 10,000 crore is another landmark step and will give a fillip to greening the economy, he said.
Girish R Tanti, vice-chairman, Suzlon Energy Ltd, said the allocation is "a step in the right direction...for a sustainable future."
The government's commitment to increase the use of renewable energy in the country is commendable, and will play a crucial role in reducing carbon emissions and mitigating the impact of climate change. The National Green Hydrogen Mission will complement our efforts towards net-zero, he said.
Dinesh Patidar, chairman and managing director, Shakti Pumps (India) Ltd, said: "The budget with a specific priority on green growth sets the tone for a sustainable India. Rs 35,000-crore outlay for energy transition programmes contributing to the net zero commitments of India shall further add to the overall sustainable development in the country."
Further, increasing investment in infrastructure by 33 per cent for the third consecutive year to Rs 10 lakh crore is a positive move which will have a multiplier effect across the sectors.
Rahul Munjal, chairman & managing director, Hero Future Energies, said viability gap funding for battery storage projects, outlay for grid expansion for renewable energy and the green credit programme to incentivize sustainable behaviour, all are very welcome and timely steps that will accelerate clean energy adoption.
The PM-PRANAM scheme will boost the usage of green ammonia for production of environment friendly fertilizers. The policy for scrapping old vehicles and customs duty exemption on Li-ion batteries will also help fast track EVs and clean up the mobility sector, he said.
Pratik Agarwal, managing director, Sterlite Power, said the reduction in duties for lithium-ion batteries is a step in the right direction. It has also ushered in a key measure for the financial health of states' distribution utilities by tying 0.5 per cent of their deficit to power sector reforms. This is an added incentive for the states to reform the discoms.
Anil Chaudhry, zone president, India and CEO & MD, Schneider Electric India, said key measures have been taken to support green growth, including viability gap funding for battery storage, renewable energy evacuation, National Green Hydrogen Mission, and green credit policy.
"With an investment of Rs 10,000 crore, the budget also underlines the need for embracing a circular economy through the GOBARdhan Scheme," he said.
Manish R Sharma, partner and leader, Capital Projects & Infrastructure, PwC India, said: "Commitment on electric mobility is seen on the battery segment, alternate fuels, like biogas finding a place clearly indicates that the future is open to innovation, and the best technology will win. This is in addition to the push coming on the generation side of biogas under the GOBARdhan Scheme."
Neel Sahni, co-founder, Apna Chemist, said: "We welcome the remarkable budget. It is imperative that we work towards promoting research and development in various facets of medicine and vaccine inoculation. Every rupee invested towards the advancement of healthcare services benefits not just the domestic economy, but has a profound cascading effect of reducing the disease burden in the international community through new offerings in preventive treatment."
Pankaj Sharma, co-founder & director, Log9 Materials, said, "The Budget has mobilised multiple levers towards creating a green economy which is very promising. While the decision to scrap older ICE (Internal Combustion Engine) vehicles will definitely pave the way for new EV deployments, investments in the energy storage space will cement the current gaps in India's journey towards energy self-sufficiency."
Saurabh Shivhare, director, Kapila Krishi Udyog, said the exemption of up to Rs 7 lakh on income tax will benefit the farmer families more. Farmers will get qualitative benefits from the far-reaching results in this. Initiatives have been announced in the budget to give priority to the works of farming, milk and fish farming, it is a welcome step and the farmer will get new energy and economic strength.
#12
Gandhinagar: State energy minister Kanu Desai, who is part of the delegation at the COP29 being held at Baku in Azerbaijan, said that Gujarat is positioned to be a leading force in India's clean energy transition. The state's efforts extend to emerging areas like green hydrogen, positioning Gujarat as a global hub for sustainable economic growth and renewable energy innovation.
Speaking at the conference, Desai highlighted Gujarat's proactive stance in India's clean energy transition. The state set ambitious targets to scale up its renewable energy capacity and achieve energy self-reliance by 2047, marking the centenary of India's independence.
Commenting on Gujarat's 'Mission 100 GW' of renewable energy (RE), Desai said the ambitious initiative aims to significantly scale up Gujarat's renewable capacity and make it a leading force in India's clean energy transition. Desai emphasised that fostering a business-friendly environment, attracting investments and driving innovation are critical components of this mission.
Highlighting the state's role in the offshore wind energy sector at a bilateral meeting with representatives from the Climate Investment Fund (CIF) and leading international stakeholders, Desai said Gujarat has an estimated 35-40 GW of offshore wind potential. He added that multinational companies are partnering with Gujarat for offshore wind energy investments.
The state delegation also engaged in discussions with representatives of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) at COP29. A govt statement said the discussions focused on achieving zero emissions by 2047, leveraging green technologies and ensuring a just energy transition.
#13
Talks of coal phase down and energy transition have remained confined to close room discussions as majority of the population in coal rich districts of Jharkhand have heard nothing about closure of mines or need for alternative livelihood schemes.The level of ignorance among masses was found at a time when India has set a target of achieving net zero by 2070 at COP26 in 2021 and updated its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) last year to adopt a coal phase down approach by 2030.The facts were revealed in the joint study conducted by Climate trends, a green energy think tank and Ernst and Young in six coal rich districts of Jharkhand. The findings of the report were released in Kolkata on Monday.The researchers targeted 6000 respondents comprising 2000 labourers each of coal mines and thermal power plant besides 2000 unorganised labourers, dependent directly or indirectly on the coal sector.One third of the respondents have been employed in the coal sector for over a decade due to lack of other employment opportunity and more than 50% of them believed that the coal sector is the only available source of employment in Jharkhand.
90% of the workers in Thermal Power Plants and more than 60% of the workers in the coal mines were unaware of power plant or mine closure plans of the government. Around 50% of them understood that they do not have any additional skill set required for getting employed in the alternate sector and around one third agreed that they do not have any savings to provide a small buffer in case they lost their current employment.While 94% of the respondents reported not having participated in any training programmes the remaining six percent have got some form of training for alternate livelihood, majority of them in the renewable energy sector.Founder Director, Climate Trends, Aarti Khosla said that there is no clarity about coal phase down or phase out but even then, the focus on renewables is clear and coal forms the life and blood of many districts which are dependent on coal. "Energy swap is not going to happen because less than 1% of coal areas are suited for wind energy and maybe 5% of the area can support solar power," she said.Amit Kumar of EY explained that Giridih was included in the study as two open cast mines of CCL have recently been closed there. "We wanted to study the impact on livelihood of the local people and found that some were transferred to other mines while many of them got engaged in fish farming," he said.Addressing the stakeholders Co-founder of Policy and Development advisory Group, Arindam Banerjee who happens to be advisor to chief minister of Jharkhand said underlined the important role of government in translating energy transition at the ground level."Government capital is important because it has the capacity to provide the necessary financial resources both directly in terms of public finance as well as also in collaboration with other stakeholders. Some of the conversations that have been happening in the ongoing requisite policy framework and when I say policy framework, it is not only about getting some well-intentioned framework guidelines on a piece of paper but also cohesively designed action plans which can be implemented in true letter and spirit in the districts that are likely to face this impact," he said.Citing examples of other states like Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu who have a clearer road map in form of green energy corridor or policy to support SMEs, Banerjee said that Kerala model of empowering PRIs to take decisions is also appreciable. He suggested forming just transition welfare fund or coal pension fund from the DMFT funds available to the coal rich districts so that the phase down does not come as a shock.
#14
A meeting was held for the launch of the report titled "Synchronizing energy transitions towards possible Net-Zero for India: Affordable and clean energy for All" prepared by IIM Ahmedabad as part of a study project which was sanctioned in November 2021 by the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India with part-funding (one-third) from Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd (NPCIL).The report was launched by Prof Ajay Kumar Sood, Principal Scientific Adviser (PSA) to the Government of India in presence of dignitaries Dr VK Saraswat, Member, NITI Aayog; Dr AK Mohanty, Secretary, Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) and Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission (AEC); PA Suresh Babu, Distinguished Scientist and Director (HR), NPCIL who joined on behalf of CMD, NPCIL; DrParvinder Maini, Scientific Secretary, Office of PSA. Dr Anil Kakodkar, Chancellor, Homi Bhabha National Institute (HBNI) and former Chairman, AEC was the Guest of Honour and he had joined the meeting online.A need was felt to undertake an analytical study on the energy transition required towards a net-zero energy basket for India. Accordingly, the study was sanctioned with the objective of conducting a comprehensive study with rigorous methods for minimizing the cost of power at consumer end and to work out an optimum mix for all sources of power, aiming for net-zero emission.
The project team at IIM Ahmedabad led by Prof Amit Garg, Public Systems Group, has successfully completed the study, under the guidance of an expert group constituted by the Office of PSA, having experts from diverse sectors of power generation including coal, nuclear, solar, wind, biofuels, etc. The expert committee is chaired by Dr RB Grover, Emeritus Professor, HBNI and Member, AEC, and the other members are Dr. K. Balaraman, former Director General, National Institute of Wind Energy; Dr. Bharat Bhargava, Former Director General, ONGC Energy Centre; SC Chetal, Former Director, Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research and Ex-Mission Director, AUSC (Advanced Ultra Super Critical) Mission; Dr. Rajeev Sukumaran, Senior Principal Scientist and Head, Biofuels and Biorefineries Section, National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology; BVS Sekhar, Associate Director (CP&CC), NPCIL and Remya Haridasan, Scientist 'D', Office of PSA. After rigorous review by the expert group, the report was independently reviewed by Tata Consulting Engineers Limited which was a further value-addition and the final document was launched at the meeting.The report attempts to answer key questions related to India's energy trajectory such as how much energy does India need to achieve high value of Human Development Index (HDI); what are pathways to achieve this; what are the energy mix projections for this until 2070 (our declared net-zero target year); what would be the cost of electricity to the end user; what would be the carbon emissions until 2070; what would be the investments required for energy transitions towards net-zero at 2070; estimation of other challenges and opportunities (RE integration, requirement of critical minerals, Carbon Capture Utilisation and Storage (CCUS), natural gas, ethanol, hydrogen) in energy transitions towards achieving net-zero in 2070.

Talks of coal phase down and energy transition have remained confined to close room discussions as majority of the population in coal rich districts of Jharkhand have heard nothing about closure of mines or need for alternative livelihood schemes.The level of ignorance among masses was found at a time when India has set a target of achieving net zero by 2070 at COP26 in 2021 and updated its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) last year to adopt a coal phase down approach by 2030.The facts were revealed in the joint study conducted by Climate trends, a green energy think tank and Ernst and Young in six coal rich districts of Jharkhand. The findings of the report were released in Kolkata on Monday.The researchers targeted 6000 respondents comprising 2000 labourers each of coal mines and thermal power plant besides 2000 unorganised labourers, dependent directly or indirectly on the coal sector.One third of the respondents have been employed in the coal sector for over a decade due to lack of other employment opportunity and more than 50% of them believed that the coal sector is the only available source of employment in Jharkhand.
90% of the workers in Thermal Power Plants and more than 60% of the workers in the coal mines were unaware of power plant or mine closure plans of the government. Around 50% of them understood that they do not have any additional skill set required for getting employed in the alternate sector and around one third agreed that they do not have any savings to provide a small buffer in case they lost their current employment.While 94% of the respondents reported not having participated in any training programmes the remaining six percent have got some form of training for alternate livelihood, majority of them in the renewable energy sector.Founder Director, Climate Trends, Aarti Khosla said that there is no clarity about coal phase down or phase out but even then, the focus on renewables is clear and coal forms the life and blood of many districts which are dependent on coal. "Energy swap is not going to happen because less than 1% of coal areas are suited for wind energy and maybe 5% of the area can support solar power," she said.Amit Kumar of EY explained that Giridih was included in the study as two open cast mines of CCL have recently been closed there. "We wanted to study the impact on livelihood of the local people and found that some were transferred to other mines while many of them got engaged in fish farming," he said.Addressing the stakeholders Co-founder of Policy and Development advisory Group, Arindam Banerjee who happens to be advisor to chief minister of Jharkhand said underlined the important role of government in translating energy transition at the ground level."Government capital is important because it has the capacity to provide the necessary financial resources both directly in terms of public finance as well as also in collaboration with other stakeholders. Some of the conversations that have been happening in the ongoing requisite policy framework and when I say policy framework, it is not only about getting some well-intentioned framework guidelines on a piece of paper but also cohesively designed action plans which can be implemented in true letter and spirit in the districts that are likely to face this impact," he said.Citing examples of other states like Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu who have a clearer road map in form of green energy corridor or policy to support SMEs, Banerjee said that Kerala model of empowering PRIs to take decisions is also appreciable. He suggested forming just transition welfare fund or coal pension fund from the DMFT funds available to the coal rich districts so that the phase down does not come as a shock.

For the first time, a bottom-up 'Just Energy Transition Framework' was formulated by the researchers of IIT-Kanpur, which was recently published in a peer-reviewed international journal Sustainability. Taking into account the climate crises-induced 'energy transition' (ET) process in India, the research attempts to develop a framework where community-centric local governments (LG) play pivotal roles to ensure energy justice (EJ) for thousands of people who might lose their livelihoods in the process.
India's dependence on coal for primary energy supply may not be ignored in near future, but coal is all set to see a slow growth of 30% whereas solar energy is likely to observe a massive surge of 700% by 2030.
If India aims to phase out coal mining by 2050 during which 15-20 million livelihoods are likely to be affected. To ensure EJ during the process of mine closure and installing new solar plants, decentralised local governance will be extremely relevant, the paper said.
The paper presents a bottom-up inverted pyramid framework of 'Just Energy Transition' (JET) consisting of four layers., where coal mine workers and local residents are at the top being the 'most vulnerable sections' and consequently, the biggest stakeholders. Immediately below is the local government. Both the coal mine workers and local government should interact with the civil bodies (trade unions, NGOs, and research organisations) for negotiating such transitions with the state (provincial) government and the national (federal) government, which are at the bottom of the framework, said the paper.
The LG mechanism function as a nodal point for the disbursement of all the national and state welfare policy programmes, while at the bottom of the pyramid it engages communities in policy formulation, implementation, and monitoring. JET fits well with community-centric LG and strengthens decentralisation of the decision-making process. Centralising JET (top-down approach), on the other hand, can weaken community sensitivity and response.
"Justice will prevail if everyone is involved in the decision-making and policy implementation process," said the research paper titled Local Government in Just Energy Transition: Towards a Community-Centric Framework.
"Inter LG alliance of the stakeholders [miners], scientists, workers, business groups, policymakers, and other individuals in the energy supply chain will play a crucial role to govern the transition effectively. However, the alliance must be in tune with the national policies. While the demand for funds and services to meet the energy need will flow down from stakeholders to the national government, the flow of funds and regulatory policy will move up from the national government to stakeholders." said
Pradip Swarnakar, lead author of the paper and Professor of sociology who heads Just Transition Research Centre (JTRC) at the IIT Kanpur.
The article finds a global absence of a conceptual framework that can locate JET within the realm of LG and fills a wide gap in knowledge in relation to JET processes and their outcome at the local level. The success of the model, the paper says, lies in identifying the key local stakeholders like trade unions and workers and strengthening institutions to decentralise JET through an LG system.
Key findings:
· Energy justice and governance gained currency post-Paris agreement period (2016-2022)
· A small number of scientific works indicates a dearth of research focussing EJ and ET at the local level
· Complex relations between technology and society necessitated a paradigm shift from mere ET to just energy transition (JET)
· Development of JET has only just started infusing into policy interventions in the global South (Canada, Europe, USA, Australia), but the groundwork in the LG of ET had already begun in the Global North (Asia and Africa).
· Centralised JET weakens a community's sensitivity and response; the decentralised decision-making, is an essential step towards localising JET
· Four vital conceptual pillars of EJ - distributive (access to resources for all), procedural (participation in the decision-making process), cosmopolitan (human rights governed by moral values), and recognition (vulnerability due to socioeconomic status)
· Strengthening LG systems by giving budgetary support is also key to a successful transition, as it helps minimise conflict with business firms and facilitates stakeholders' participation in multilevel governing mechanisms
· From installing large solar grids and establishing energy parks to building small storage devices, input from science and technology is pivotal. Low-cost and consumer-friendly technology is preferred, and the challenge of absorbing left-behind fossil fuel workers is clear.
· Heavy investment solution seems affordable for the global north; the global south cannot afford capital-intensive plans. Therefore, we need an alternative low-cost yet community-centric governance mechanism to JET.

Bengaluru: The consul general of France in Bengaluru, Thierry Berthelot, on Tuesday said his country is deeply invested in India's sustainability transition through multiple cooperation programmes, including bilateral projects, facilitating investment and working together on new technology.
Speaking at the 'New mobility solutions and green energy' session as part of The India Advantage summit here, Berthelot said: "France is a key partner in initiating India's energy transition." From supporting the deployment of low-carbon energies with renewable energies, aiding the emergence of a low-carbon hydrogen industry, for which a bilateral roadmap on green hydrogen is in place, he said the country is working closely in also improving energy efficiency in various sectors of the economy in terms of transmission and distribution networks.


So far as new mobility goes, which needs a convergence of innovation and efficiency, Berthelot said: "There's intensive cooperation on green mobility by investing to develop a transport system complementary to mass transit systems such as Metros, developing soft and active models (non-motorised mobility) and working on governance of the transport system."
He added the City Investments To Innovate, Integrate & Sustain (CITIIS) programme which focuses on climate change resiliency and green mobility is also being implemented in multiple Indian cities, while France is financing specific projects in the field of new and green mobility.

Gensol Engineering has been selected as the lowest bidder for NHPC's Kargil Green Hydrogen Mobility Station EPC Project in Ladakh. The project involves developing a 500-kW solar power project that will provide energy to the hydrogen refueling station, as well as installing storage and dispensing facilities. The project is expected to be completed within 12 months. Gensol Engineering sees this win as an opportunity to strengthen its market position and expand in the renewable energy sector.
Rooftop solar potential could be critical to energy transition in India, should be incentivised: Study
A report by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) reveals that over 25 crore households in India have the potential to install 637 GW of solar energy capacity on rooftops. Deploying just one-third of this potential could meet the entire electricity demand of the residential sector. However, the technical potential decreases to 118 GW after considering current electricity consumption and consumers' willingness to buy rooftop solar. The report suggests the need for financial support, capital subsidies, and awareness campaigns to promote rooftop solar installations.
Poland on track to get 5.1 billion in EU green transition funds
Poland is set to receive 5.1 billion euros in advance payments from the European Union under the REPowerEU scheme, aimed at reducing reliance on Russian fossil fuels. This is in addition to the 59.8 billion euros Poland will receive from the EU, although 35.4 billion euros is currently frozen due to concerns over rule of law reforms. Access to 76.5 billion euros of EU cohesion funds is also blocked. However, the election of a pro-European Union alliance could lead to improved relations and the release of the frozen funds.


BP's CEO, Bernard Looney, has emphasized the need for continued investment in oil and gas production to prevent sharp price increases and support the energy transition. Despite global efforts, greenhouse gas emissions have continued to rise since the Paris climate conference in 2015. BP plans to allocate 40% of its capital to energy transition projects by the middle of the decade and 50% by the end of the decade, with a focus on India.
Global oil major BP said the world must invest in the production of oil and gas to avoid sharp price spikes while accelerating the energy transition to combat greenhouse gas emissions.
Global gas prices surged seven-fold last year as 3% of global gas supplies were hit following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, forcing countries to boost energy spending and shift to coal, BP CEO Bernard Looney said in New Delhi.

"We need to do both. We need to invest in today's energy system responsibly and, at the same time, we must invest in accelerating energy transition," Looney told the B20 conference.
Energy transition has to be orderly to maintain its pace as emission levels have risen since the Paris conference on climate change in 2015, despite global efforts, he said.
The Paris-based energy watchdog International Energy Agency expects global oil demand to hit a record 2.2 million barrels per day this year.
Looney said his company would invest 40% of its capital on energy transition projects by the middle of this decade and 50% by the end of the decade. "We will invest between $55 and $65 billion as BP this decade in energy transition growth engines," he said.
BP, investing in energy projects in India along with its partner Reliance Industries Ltd, has set up about 3,000 electric vehicle charging points to date, up from 750 in January. The two have set up 300 battery swapping stations.
BP has invested in India's gas sector, and its venture arm has bought a stake in electric ride-hailing startup BluSmart.
"I have every expectation that we will do more in India in years to come," Looney said.
India has invited global companies to invest in its energy transition and work with it to achieve its vision to expand the green footprint by more than doubling the share of natural gas in the country's energy basket.
Addressing investors virtually during a roadshow on Saturday ahead of the 11th round of bidding for city gas distribution (CGD), Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Hardeep Singh Puri said that the demand for natural gas within India has seen an upward tick from the past.
"The growth of the CGD industry showcases natural gas as a responsible alternative to its more polluting fossil fuel counterparts," he told investors gathered at the Indian pavilion at EXPO2020 Dubai.
"When the NDA government took office in 2014, only 34 geographical areas covering 9 per cent population and 2.7 per cent of India's geographical area were covered by CGD networks and on the completion of the 11th round, 96 per cent of the country's population and 86 per cent of its geographic area would be covered under CGD network. The expected investment because of the concluded CGD bidding rounds is nearing a total of rupees 1.2 lakh crore," he said.
Tarun Kapoor, Secretary, Petroleum and Natural Gas, invited the private sector to invest in the oil and gas sector as there are huge business opportunities.
"We want the private sector to come in a big way to join the Indian oil and gas sector. So far, public sector is leading, playing probably the very major role, but now, we want more and more companies from the private sector to join them," he said during a keynote address.
"While some of the companies have already invested in city gas distribution, we want some new companies also to come in, as the business opportunity is huge. And we want the distribution networks to come up very fast in India," Kapoor said.
Talking about the upstream industry, he said, "India has not yet fully explored its oil and gas reserves, and as we move along and we start exploring more and more area, we will certainly have more discoveries."
The latest bidding round will offer 65 geographical areas spread over 19 states and one Union Territory, which would cover around 25 per cent of India's population.
"Natural gas is the future, and it will be the most important component of India's energy bouquet to realise our vision of net-zero by 2070," said Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, Chairman, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL).
Manoj Jain, Chairman & Managing Director, Gas Authority of India Ltd (GAIL), said, "GAIL has been a pioneer in CGD in India, and we are currently operating in 62 geographical areas. We are committed to covering the entire India with gas pipelines, including J&K, soon."
S C L Das, Director General, Directorate General of Hydrocarbons; Gajendra Singh, Member, PNGRB; Suresh Manglani, CEO, Adani Gas Ltd, along with various CGD players from the public and private sector, also attended the bidding.
India is currently the third-largest primary energy consumer after China, and the USA, and it is one of the fastest-growing energy consumers across the world. The country aims to enhance the share of natural gas in its energy basket from 7.6 per cent to 15 per cent by 2030.
#20
As the world struggles with the serious issues of climate change and the depletion of traditional energy resources, the shift to renewable energy sources appears as a critical worldwide priority. Among the various renewable energy options, solar energy has emerged as a prominent aspect, providing a plethora of benefits and playing a crucial part in the transition to a future of renewable energy. 
The solar energy sector has emerged as a significant participant in grid-connected power-producing capacity. It is, therefore, safe to say that as a green, clean, and sustainable energy source, solar energy can significantly slow down climate change and global warming. As solar technology progresses, solar power will become increasingly accessible not only to business organizations but also to the general public for a sustainable future. 
Solar Energy: A Renewable Power
 Solar energy is precisely what it sounds like: energy derived from the sun. In fact, today's solar energy is generated by two leading technologies: photovoltaics (PV) and concentrating solar thermal power (CSP). Photovoltaics is the most popular type of solar panel technology; when the sun shines on the panels, PV cells absorb the energy and generate electrical charges to power the system. On the other hand, CSP employs mirrors to reflect sunlight onto receivers, which generate energy in the form of heat to power more prominent industries.
In recent years, solar energy has emerged as a beacon of clean and sustainable energy generation. Solar energy, unlike traditional fossil fuels, results in zero greenhouse gas emissions and minimal environmental impact. As a result of reduced reliance on fossil fuels, solar energy is playing an essential role in mitigating climate change and improving air quality, creating employment and wealth, and contributing to a healthier and more sustainable planet. Furthermore, supportive policy frameworks and government initiatives such as the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Utthan Mahabhiyan (PM KUSUM), Roof Top Solar (RTS) Programme, Solar Park Scheme, Green Energy Corridors, Green Grids Initiative - One Sun One World One Grid, and others are further aiding in the widespread adoption of solar energy.
Benefits of Solar Energy
Solar energy has numerous advantages, making it a very appealing and viable energy source. Here are some of the primary benefits of solar energy:
Environmental Benefits: Solar energy is a renewable energy source, which means that the sun's light constantly replenishes it. Unlike fossil fuels, solar energy does not emit greenhouse gases or contribute to air pollution, making it a clean and sustainable energy source. Furthermore, solar energy minimizes water use because it requires less water to operate than other sources of electricity generation.
Create Local Wealth and Jobs: With the growing popularity and usage, solar energy businesses are generating employment and economic prosperity. Solar energy system installation, production, and maintenance necessitate a specialized workforce, creating job possibilities in a variety of industries. As the solar business grows, it further draws investment, boosts local economies, and helps with long-term growth. According to the research "India's Expanding Clean Energy Workforce: Opportunities in the Solar and Wind Energy Sectors," if India achieves its objective of 500 GW of non-fossil fuel energy sources by 2030, the country can create 3.4 million new clean energy jobs providing employment to over a million people. 
Cost-Effective: In recent years, solar energy systems have become cost-effective, allowing homeowners and businesses to generate their own electricity, reducing their reliance on utility providers and cutting their energy bills. Individuals can significantly eliminate their long-term electricity bills by harnessing the power of the solar panels. Furthermore, solar panels require little care, with significant upkeep consisting of occasional cleaning and inspection. Solar panels also have a lengthy lifespan, generally lasting 25-30 years or more. This lifespan assures a consistent and dependable source of electricity for a protracted period of time, resulting in a return on investment.
Solar Energy: A Solution for the Future
Solar energy has enormous promise in India's transition to renewable energy, thanks to government initiatives, favorable policies, and an abundance of solar resources. Yet, it has various advantages that go beyond environmental sustainability. Solar power has the potential to revolutionize the way we create and consume electricity, opening the way for a more sustainable and resilient future, from cost savings and energy independence to job creation and grid stability.  Furthermore, it has the ability to minimize greenhouse gas emissions, air pollution, and reliance on fossil fuels. Individuals and organizations are also helping to create a cleaner, more renewable future by using solar energy. As a result, the shift to renewable energy sources is critical for battling climate change, conserving natural resources, and building a healthier environment for future generation
#21
PM Narendra Modi said the G20 had reaffirmed its commitments to sustainable growth by adopting the 'Green Development Pact', and noted that "energy transition" was a significant need of the 21st century world keeping in mind the challenge of climate change.
Narendra Modi said the G20 had reaffirmed its commitments to sustainable growth by adopting the 'Green Development Pact', and noted that "energy transition" was a significant need of the 21st century world keeping in mind the challenge of climate change.
"Trillions of dollars are required for an inclusive energy transition. Naturally, developed countries play a very crucial role in this.
Along with India, all the countries of the Global South are pleased that developed countries have taken a positive initiative this year. Developed countries have expressed their willingness to fulfil their commitment of $100 billion for climate finance for the first time," the Prime Minister said.
Referring to India's actions, he said, "Today, India stands among the countries where a large-scale solar revolution is underway. Millions of Indian farmers have embraced natural farming. We have launched the 'National Green Hydrogen Mission'."
PM Modi also proposed that the G20 countries start working on a 'Green Credit Initiative'.
#22
Centre will start a green transition programme for MSMEs to reduce industrial carbon footprints, said Aman Hans, senior resident fellow, climate strategy and policy, Niti Aayog, at the 5th edition of Green Industry Conclave organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Saturday."The upcoming national programme is in a conceptualisation stage now, and talks are on with state govts and other stakeholders, including regulatory bodies and private sectors, to make it viable for MSMEs. The focus of the govt is to reduce carbon footprints in the MSME segment and then introduce decarbonising measures like energy efficiency, use of alternative fuels and greening of electricity through various possibilities like open access, rooftop solar panels and virtual supply of green power through distribution companies," said Hans.Centre would float tenders soon, he added. "Further talks will be held with state govts for programme implementation," Hans went on to add."As green energy tariff is greater than the brown energy tariff rate, MSMEs are finding it hard to procure green tariff. Niti Aayog wants to bring the tariff of green energy closer to brown energy," said Hans.With nearly 90 lakh units, Bengal is India's second-largest MSME hub.We also published the following articles recently
Senvion bags 210 MW wind turbine generator order from Continuum Green Energy
Senvion India has announced securing an order from Continuum Green Energy for the supply of 50 wind turbine generators, totaling 210 MW. Scheduled for deployment in Gujarat or Karnataka, deliveries will commence in April 2026. The agreement also includes a provision to increase the number of turbines by up to another 50 units.
Green Park is as lush green as I saw in my childhood: Akash Deep
Varanasi-born cricketer Akash Deep lauded the verdant Green Park stadium in Kanpur, recalling his childhood dreams of playing there. Now part of Royal Challengers Bangalore, he made his debut against England on February 23, 2024. The historic venue will host its 24th test match from September 27 to October 1.
Govt makes tariffs for ambulance services standard across state
The Thiruvananthapuram government has standardized ambulance service tariffs statewide. The new rates include a minimum charge for the first 10km, with additional fees per km and waiting time. Discounts are offered to BPL categories, cancer patients, and children under 12. Special training and uniforms will be provided to ambulance drivers as part of this initiative.
#23
India is critical to the transformational progress the world needs, Sultan Al Jaber, UAE climate envoy and designated COP28 president, said on Tuesday.
"As India's economy surges, it is dealing with the fundamental question that the whole world faces. How to adopt policies that are pro-growth and pro- climate at the same time... In short, how to hold back emissions, not progress," Jaber said at the India Energy Week conference.

Jaber's choice of India as the first stop in his "listening tour" acknowledges New Delhi's role as the voice of Global South as the G20 president and the Narendra Modi government's transition policies.
Jaber said as part of the COP28 process UAE will "actively listen to and engage with" the entire world. I am delighted that the first stop on this listening tour is this great country," he said. India is the world's largest oil consumer and UAE has emerged as a key supplier.
"Under prime minister Modi's guidance, India has emerged from the Covid pandemic stronger than before. It is the fastest growing major economy... and will soon be the third-largest in the world. This is a testament to the wisdom of India's leaders and the spirit of its people," Jaber said.
He underlined the need for oil and gas till the time a new energy system is in place and call for the need to empower the Global South, where almost 800 million people have no electricity, has to be empowered "in an inclusive energy transition".
"We must eliminate energy poverty... And we need to move from talking about goals to getting the job done," he said. "That is why we are calling for COP28 to be a COP of Action and a COP for All."
Jaber's appointment had prompted call for him to give up his role as the CEO of one of the world's largest oil companies to avoid conflict of interest.
#24

IIM report outlines India's reliance on coal, the need for nuclear power and renewables for net-zero goals, emphasizing early electricity decarbonization and a comprehensive transition plan to achieve a carbon-neutral future by 2070.
At a time when India is exploring potential pathways for a development-led transition to a carbon-neutral future, a report of IIM Ahmedabad said coal is projected to continue until the next two decades as the backbone of the country's energy system, and noted that net-zero emission goal is not possible without "substantial" nuclear power and renewable energy generation by 2070.
The report, released last week as part of a study project which was sanctioned by the office of the principal scientific adviser (PSA) to the govt, also underlined the need of Rs 150-200 lakh crore (about $2-2.5 trillion, or $40-50 billion/year) to reach net-zero though energy transition till 2070 - India's declared net-zero target year.
Though the report projected India's emissions in the range of 0.56 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide (btCO2) to 1.0 btCO2 in 2070, it said the the remaining gap in emissions will be offset through sequestration in forestry and tree cover as envisaged in the country's climate action plan - called 'nationally determined contributions' (NDCs).
The report - Synchronizing energy transitions towards possible Net-Zero for India: Affordable and clean energy for All - is the first of its kind of "independent domestic studies" in this critical area, factoring in the country's need for carbon space for economic development while simultaneously moving towards its 2070 net-zero goal.

Former chairman of Atomic Energy Commission, Anil Kakodkar in his message noted that though several institutions and analysts, mostly outside India, have looked at potential scenarios for approaching global net-zero, the most of them rather than looking at "vacating the carbon space at an accelerated pace as a part of correcting its disproportionate use by advanced (developed) countries" tend to underestimate India's energy needs.

"Some groups in India also tend to tow such lines and promote a pathway to net-zero disregarding the need to build adequate resilience to face climate change impact which would invariably require India to develop its infrastructure that is on par with advanced countries, capable of mitigating climate change impact and consistent with the size of India's population," said Kakodkar while expressing the need to have independent domestic studies.
"Such studies should help guide our development plans and strategies in a more robust manner keeping Indian interests in focus," he said.
The IIM report is partly funded (one-third) by the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd (NPCIL). The report was released by Ajay Kumar Sood, PSA to the govt, on April 3.
On the occasion, A K Mohanty, secretary, department of atomic energy and chairman, AEC, gave an overview of India's on-going nuclear programme and the plans for increasing the nuclear power installed capacity from around 7.5 GW now to 100GW by 2047. India already has a plan to reach around 22.5 GW of nuclear power installed capacity by 2030.
The report explored how India can achieve clean and affordable electricity under four net-zero pathways and highlighted that the electricity sector will need to decarbonize well before 2070 to achieve net-zero energy systems by that year. It is a comprehensive study, bringing together aspects from all sectors of power generation in one place, providing a holistic view of the Indian energy sector and throwing light on the potential pathways for a development-led transition to net-zero.
#25
Brazilian oil and gas company Petrobras, Algeria-based Sonatrach, and Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. are among the companies being criticized for their lack of genuine commitment to transitioning to renewable energies. Despite attending climate summits and claiming to support the shift away from fossil fuels, these companies continue to invest billions in oil exploration and extraction. Their investments in renewable energy sources like solar and wind power are minimal.
In 2022, Brazilian oil and gas company Petrobras had 68 places staked out for oil exploration off the South American coast, searching for new reserves while spending USD 6.9 billion in oil development projects. About the same time, Algeria-based Sonatrach proclaimed its ambition to ramp up production to become a top five national oil company by 2030.
And Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. opened 68 new gas stations in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, noting in its 2022 annual report that there were now more than 500 across the UAE.
All these companies, along with 33 others focused on oil and gas, sent delegations to Egypt for last year's annual climate summit, known as COP27, aimed at moving the world away from the burning of fossil fuels like oil and gas.
Many will likely be at the upcoming conference, COP28, being hosted in the UAE, which appointed Sultan al-Jaber, chairman of the nation's oil company, as president of the summit.
Faced with criticism about their presence at negotiations, leaders of such companies argue they are part of the transition to renewable energies, an argument that negotiators like US Climate Envoy John Kerry have cautiously endorsed. But an Associated Press review of how much these companies invest in green energies, along with the priorities laid out in their annual reports, cast doubts on genuine commitments to transition.

Most companies only have small, if any, investment in solar or wind power, the most established green technologies. Most of their investments, billions of dollars, are in further exploration, extraction and refining of oil - with plans laid out in some cases over the next decades. That's long beyond when scientists say the world must move away from fossil fuels.
"These are companies with enormous profits at present, enormous engineering capabilities and have been producing oil and gas for a very long time," said Jason Bordoff, director of the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University.
"It is reasonable to expect leadership in how quickly they lead and move and develop new technologies and drive the cost down" of renewables.
The companies at last year's summit don't look to be making such efforts in any big way. Many that publish annual reports have sections entitled "sustainable" or "green" that do include some renewables. However, in such sections they also include biofuels, hydrogen development and carbon capture, all things that at best have long-term potential to reduce emissions. Many also tout natural gas which, while cleaner-burning than fuels like coal, still emits significant amounts of methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
Almost all the companies focus on reducing emissions in their operations, and don't address the emissions that will result when customers use their products to power cars, heat homes, move ships and planes, and so forth.
Those emissions are known as "Scope 3" and they are commonly seen as both the biggest share of a company's emissions and the most difficult to solve, with many companies arguing they are out of their control. (Scope 1 refers to a company's direct emissions, and Scope 2 are indirect emissions that come from production of the energy a company acquires to use in its operations.)
Amir Sokolowski, global director of the Climate Change Team at CDP, a nonprofit that asks companies to disclose their climate impact, said fossil fuel companies are reluctant to take on emissions from their products after they're out the door.
But that reluctance isn't rational "because the point is that oil and gas cause most of the combustion in the world in terms of emissions," Sokolowski said.
Petrobras, majority-owned by the Brazilian government, specializes in deep water exploration, drilling and extraction. Its 2023-27 strategic plan earmarks $4.4 billion in investments "to strengthen our low carbon position." Petrobras' planned investments in crude oil exploration and production for the period are more than 10 times higher than its low-carbon investments, according to the World Benchmarking Alliance, which tracks companies on sustainability goals.
Meanwhile, the company's commitment toward those core products is clear. The scores of exploratory leases and billions invested in searching for new oil deposits fit a strategy that expects oil and gas production "will still be necessary to guarantee the energy security of Brazil and the world in the coming decades," the company says on its website.
Sixteen of the oil companies that went to last year's climate summit have publicly responded in recent years to questionnaires prepared by CDP, which invites companies and countries to be transparent about what they're doing on carbon and the climate. One question was how much of their spending was aimed at helping with the global goal to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius since pre-industrial times, which scientists warn is necessary to stave off the worst impacts of climate change, like increasing extreme weather events.
Equinor, a Norway-based oil and gas company, answered in 2022 that 11 per cent of its capital spending could be classified this way, with a goal of 30 per cent by 2025. Notably, Equinor was also one of a minority of companies with a plan to tackle Scope 3 emissions -- those caused by consumers' use of its products - to get to net zero emissions by 2050.
Equinor's plan includes a big focus on renewables. The company is building out the world's largest offshore wind farm, aimed at powering 6 million British homes one day. But the plan also depends on carbon capture and carbon offsets, or the equalizing of emissions by paying to capture them somewhere else. Equinor also says it will be necessary to continue to produce oil and gas "for the foreseeable future," in part to avoid global shocks.
Al-Jaber's company, ADNOC, earlier this year began using drones to scatter mangrove seeds across Abu Dhabi, part of what it touted as a sustainability effort to plant some 2.5 million of the carbon-storing plants. Yet the company's investment in low-carbon projects amounts to just 10% of its reported plans for USD 150 billion in capital spending through 2027.
ADNOC, Petrobras, Equinor and Sonatrach declined or did not respond to interview requests to talk about their energy transition plans.
Some companies in developing nations underscored the tension between the importance of oil and gas to their national economies and the industry's contribution to climate change, which can hit their countries harder than the developed world.
Uganda National Oil Co. in August announced formation of the Alliance for Climate Resilience to Combat Climate Change, an effort it said would include things like planting millions of trees, decarbonizing industry and shifting to cleaner cooking methods, with hopes to attract other East African nations to join.
But Uganda National was among companies whose plans for renewable energy were aimed primarily at using the clean power to decarbonize its fossil fuel projects, not replace them with cleaner pursuits.
Proscovia Nabbanja, the company's chief executive, referenced the difficult transition in an essay titled "Advancing Equitable Clean Energy in Developing Nations." Nabbanja noted pressure on nations like hers "that have not benefited from significant industrial and economic growth but are now expected to reduce emissions at the expense of their own development." She said wealthier nations have to lend money and technology to help developing nations with an "equitable energy transition."
Peter Muliisa, the company's general counsel, said that as a developing country, Uganda has low emissions relative to other nations. He also argued that it should be up to countries, not companies, to control Scope 3 emissions.
"It is very hard for companies to plan for Scope 3 emissions, to put them in their plans," Muliisa told the AP.
Regardless of who is responsible for the greenhouse gas emissions from oil and gas, in notes to investors some of the companies strike a reassuring tone about fossil fuels' durability. In its 2022 annual report, Chevron noted that while the future was uncertain, many outlooks conclude that fossil fuels will remain a significant energy source while lower-carbon alternatives are incorporated.
"The company will continue to develop oil and gas resources to meet customers' and consumers' demand," said the report.
#26
Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani on Friday unveiled his plan to do a 'Jio' in energy transition by producing green hydrogen for under $1 per Kg, or roughly Rs 73 at Friday's dollar exchange rate, for faster adoption of the cleanest mobility solution available to the world at this point.
"Green hydrogen is zero-carbon energy. It is the best and cleanest source of energy, which can play a fundamental role in the world's decarbonisation plans," India's richest man told told International Climate Summit 2021, adding Reliance will pursue the target of first reduce the cost to below $2 per kg and ultimately to under $1 in a decade.
Ambani's vision for green hydrogen has a familiar ring to it.
It has the potential to disrupt the mobility and energy transition markets the way Reliance did when it entered the telecom market with Jio, which reduced tariffs and got consumers hooked to data services- a key ingredient for moving towards 'internet-of-all-things'. Green hydrogen currently costs between $3 and $6.55 per kg.
Ambani also said Reliance will set up 100 gigawatts (GW) of renewable power capacity by 2030, which is part of a $10 billion green energy bet he had announced to stockholders on June 25.
The company will use the power generated from this capacity to produce hydrogen by electrolysing water. With abundant sunlight, India can generate over 1,000 GW of solar power.
This energy uses just 0.5% of the country's landmass, he said, adding India has already achieved 100 GW of renewable energy capacity and the target of 175 GW by December 2022 is now well within sight.
Reliance's focus on hydrogen is a key ingredient for achieving Ambani's net-zero goals. "Last year, I had announced our ambitious commitment to make Reliance a net-carbon zero company by 2035. This year, I presented our strategy and roadmap for the new energy business, which will be the next big 'value creation engine' for Reliance and India," he said.

"We have started developing the Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy Giga Complex over 5,000 acres in Jamnagar. It will be amongst the largest integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities in the world. This complex will have four giga factories, which cover the entire spectrum of renewable energy," he said.
Hydrogen is the flavour of the season, thanks to the government's National Hydrogen Mission. This is part of the government's strategy for reducing the economy's carbon footprint as New Delhi staves off pressure to announce a net-zero target. Power and renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Singh told TOI India has the potential to become "one of the largest, if not the largest" producer of green hydrogen."
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set the goal to reach 450 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030. Out of this, Reliance will establish and enable at least 100 GW of solar energy by 2030, he stated. This, Ambani said, he said, will create a pan-India network of kilowatt and megawatt-scale solar energy producers who can produce green hydrogen for local consumption.
"Over the next three years, we will invest Rs 75,000 crore in these initiatives. Reliance will thus create and offer a fully integrated, end-to-end renewables energy ecosystem to India and Indians," he said.
The four giga factories will include an integrated solar photovoltaic module factory, an advanced energy storage battery factory, an electrolyser factory for the production of Green Hydrogen, and a fuel cell factory for converting hydrogen into motive and stationary power.
#27
Current Economics
A few days back, we were declared as the most populous country, surpassing China. We are home to 17% of people on the planet, despite possessing only 2.4% of the total landmass. On the economic front, India is poised to become the third-largest economy by the year 2027. It is being gauged that we'll reach 5 trillion dollars by the year 2029. 
The ratio of domestic credit to GDP, currently 55-60%, is predicted to go up to 100%, allowing the private sector to flourish to greater heights, and the manufacturing sector is going to contribute 21% of the GDP in the year 2031, currently, it is hovering around 15-17%. Even though the falling rupee and rising inflation are a matter of concern, the demographic dividend we are on the verge of reaping is unparalleled to any country currently. 
The median age of the country is estimated to be 27-28, we are blessed with some of the sharpest minds across all the industries. Also, the recent increase in disposable income of normal consumers has resulted in an increase in consumption, consequently leading to an increase in company profits and the overall market valuation and sentiment. 
Energy market
Energy is one of the keys to socio-economic development. Access to energy has always been linked to the economic prosperity of a nation. In its purview, UNFCCC has set up GCF (green climate fund), with the sole aim to mobilize funding to invest in low-emission and climate-resilient technology on our planet. Today all the 600 thousand villages in India have access to electricity. 
Last year, power consumption in India saw a double-digit increase, nearly 13%. Energy security has been time and again emphasized by Indian officials in events like Davos 2023 and G20 as one of the principal goals to be achieved in the near future. The markets are also seeing an increase in demand for sustainable solutions. Solar demand has risen by 40% in the last two years.
The immediate priority is to cultivate an ecosystem where it is conducive for companies and consumers to adopt clean sources of energy and employ state-of-the-art techniques and technologies to modernize power systems, all of which accelerate the traction from angel and seed investors. 
India is the new gold rush for investors
India is going to receive 500 billion dollars of FDI in the next 5 years. Liberalized FDI policies and green energy initiatives have made foreign and domestic investors really enthusiastic about what the future holds. 
During the period of 2014-19, we saw 64.4 billion dollars worth of investment in renewable energy projects. Under the National Programme of High-Efficiency Solar PV modules, the government has issued a PLI of ?19500 crores, incentivizing more in-house manufacturing rather than importing. Low-carbon technologies market is predicted to be worth up to $80 billion in India by the year 2030. 
On the global front, the International Solar Alliance (ISA), a treaty to mobilize 1000 billion dollars for solar deployment has been formulated. Under this, there is OSOWOG- One Solar One World One Grid, an initiative to build a transnational electricity grid that supplies power worldwide. The state has approved the setting up of 59 solar parks of 40 GW across the nation. 
In our country, MNRE has set up GEC (Green Energy Corridor), to harmonize renewable sources like solar, wind, and hydropower with the current traditional grids. Excessive dependency on oil imports could be paralyzing, energy independence is a privilege not many countries have. Earnest aspirations should be backed with actionable steps. Despite multiple schemes and incentives, on the ground level, the effect hasn't been that overwhelming. 
Energy is such a commodity that needs plenty of government intervention, and constant persistence from companies to make renewable sources of energy an obvious choice for consumers.
#28
As a precursor to the Global Renewable Energy Investors' (RE-INVEST) Meet, which is being organized by the Union ministry of new and renewable energy at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar from Sep 16 to 18, the state govt held a stakeholder consultation workshop on Wednesday.
Representatives of the World Economic Forum (WEF), as well as key players operating in the renewable energy (RE) sector, participated in the event.

The workshop was coordinated by S J Haider, additional chief secretary, energy and petrochemicals department. State energy minister Kanubhai Desai also attended the event.
A statement by the state energy and petrochemicals department - the nodal agency for the stakeholder workshop - stated that WEF proposed to establish a centre in Gujarat to accelerate energy transition. The proposed centre will facilitate public-private knowledge sharing on policy, financial, and technological solutions for energy transition in Gujarat and India.
It will also facilitate the exchange of best practices between public and private sectors through the WEF's network.
Speakers from the WEF included Roberto Bocca, head of Centre for Energy and Materials; Olivia Zeydler, lead, strategic integration, Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Energy and Materials; and Debmalya Sen, lead, Advanced Energy Solutions.
Participants at the stakeholder workshop included industry experts, independent power producers, RE equipment manufacturers, startups, researchers, RE developers, and those from academia.
#29
A new report by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) reveals that India has the potential to deploy 637 GW of solar energy capacity on rooftops across over 25 crore households. The report suggests that deploying just one-third of this potential could meet the entire electricity demand of the residential sector. However, the report also highlights the need for financial support and incentives to make solar economically feasible for low-consumption households.
Over 25 crore households across India have the potential to deploy 637 GW of solar energy capacity on rooftops, according to a new independent report by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) released on Thursday. The CEEW report said that deploying just one-third of this total solar technical potential could support the entire electricity demand of India's residential sector (about 310 TWh).

However, the technical potential reduces to one-fifth (118 GW) after factoring in the current electricity consumption of households.
"Most residential consumers fall into low-consumption slabs and solar may not be economically feasible for them without financial support even though it is technically possible.
"The potential reduces further to 11 GW when no capital subsidy is considered, the payback period for rooftop solar is restricted to five years and we factor in consumers' willingness to buy rooftop solar," the report said.

Currently, India has installed 11 GW of rooftop solar capacity, of which only 2.7 GW is in the residential sector.
The CEEW report did a bottom-up analysis across 21 Indian states that cover 97 per cent of the country's population.
It found that 60 per cent of the residential rooftop potential was concentrated in just seven states - Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu.
India's rooftop solar potential is spread geographically across states in contrast to other renewable technologies like utility-scale solar and wind projects, and could be critical to the energy transition ambitions of states.
Moreover, rural areas show higher technical potential based on residential rooftop area (363 GW) compared to urban areas across states (274 GW).
Arunabha Ghosh, the CEO of CEEW, said that India's solar energy revolution - going from 2,000 MW of solar power capacity in 2010 to 72,018 MW now - must reach households too to achieve its full potential.
"CEEW's study shows the mammoth capacity of solar systems that both rural and urban households can deploy to guarantee not only a transition to clean energy but also fulfil a basic need - access to power.
"But to get there, residents must get the right price and attractive incentives and enjoy a convenient experience, which can then spur the markets to create the right products and capacities for homes," he said.
The CEEW report also found that residential awareness of rooftop solar systems was less than 50 per cent at the national level in FY 2020.
Awareness in most states was clustered between 30 and 50 per cent.
When it came to willingness to install rooftop solar systems, residential consumers in Gujarat showed the highest willingness at 13 per cent, compared to the national average of 5 per cent.
However, residents across states perceive rooftop solar systems to be costly investments, impacting their willingness to pay.
According to another CEEW study released on Thursday, solarising residential households also offers huge economic benefits to power distribution companies (discoms).
The study on solarising rural households in Bihar and Meghalaya highlights lifetime economic gains to the tune of Rs 2,700 crore per 100 MW of solar capacity to discoms.
The benefits will be due to reduced cross-subsidy burden, improved transmission and distribution losses, and lower average cost to serve consumers.
The CEEW study recommended introducing targeted capital subsidies for consumers, particularly for rooftop solar system sizes of 0-3 kW, and recognising systems below 1 kW in policies and regulations.
Further, for consumers, states should create a one-stop platform for rooftop solar to provide basic, reliable, and compelling information about rooftop solar. At the national level, there is a need to roll out awareness campaigns to generate demand.
#30
"India is making great efforts in green growth and energy transition.
India is the most populated nation and fastest-growing large economy. Yet we are moving strongly on our climate commitments," he said. "We achieved our non-fossil installed electric capacity target nine years in advance. We have set a higher target. We plan to achieve 50 per cent non-fossil electricity by 2030," the prime minister said. The world looks up to this G20 group for advanced, sustainable, affordable, inclusive and clean energy transition, he said.
"While doing this, it is important that our brothers and sisters in the global south are not left behind. We must ensure low-cost finance for developing countries," he said. We must find ways to bridge technology gaps promote energy security and work on diversifying supply chains, the PM said, and called for strengthening collaboration on fuels for the future.
#31
Dr Sultan Al Jaber, the CO president-designate, praised India for its energy transition vision and called for a "new paradigm" in climate finance to ensure global south countries adopt low carbon development. He highlighted India's commitment to multilateralism and the global goal of tripling renewable energy capacity by 2030. He also stressed the need for rebuilding trust between north and south and fulfilling promises such as the USD 100 billion pledge and doubling adaptation finance.
CO president-designate Dr Sultan Al Jaber on Sunday praised India, the current hosts of the presidency of the G20, for its energy transition vision even as he acknowledged the critical need for a "new paradigm" in climate finance to ensure every country across global south adopts low carbon development.
The UAE and India shared a "vision for embracing an energy transition in line with sustainable socio-economic development," Al Jaber said at the 'From G20 to CO' special forum held at Abu Dhabi.

Starting November 30, Dubai would be hosting the CO, the annual climate change negotiations called the Conference of Parties (COP) under the aegis of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
This joint focus on renewables presents a huge opportunity to develop both economies for the future, he said, and added, "The UAE is a pioneer in renewable energy, home to some of the biggest solar projects in the world and one of the largest global investors in the sector."
Al Jaber thanked the leadership of India in delivering the G20 Delhi Declaration and for the immense progress achieved on core climate actions. He specifically thanked the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for delivering a global agreement and highlighted the Indian government's strong approach to cooperation and multilateralism, which the COP presidency aims to emulate.

CO would "frame climate action as an opportunity for growth," he said, adding that it would aim for "ambitious and balanced outcomes through the first Global Stocktake, across mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation."
Al Jaber praised Prime Minister Modi's commitment to multilateralism and reminded delegates that, under Prime Minister Modi's guidance, countries representing 85 per cent of the global economy have agreed to CO's global goal of tripling renewable energy capacity and doubling energy efficiency by 2030.

His address comes shortly after the fifth meeting of the UNFCCC Transitional Committee on Loss and Damage that concluded with agreement on a list of recommendations for implementing the loss and damage fund, which will be taken forward at CO.
Al Jaber, however, also acknowledged the critical need for a "new paradigm" in climate finance to ensure every country across the global south can adopt low carbon development - which he told delegates must start with "rebuilding trust" between north and south. He renewed calls for the transformation of climate finance to ensure a "fair and inclusive global energy transition."
"Unmet promises like the USD 100 billion pledge must be fulfilled," Al Jaber said.
"The green climate fund must be fully replenished. Adaptation finance must be doubled. And the fund for loss and damage must be fully operationalized at CO."He added that "the broader climate finance landscape must be transformed. International Financial Institutions (IFIs) and Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) urgently need to reframe their mandates to meet growing climate needs."
"More concessional funding is essential to attract more private capital. We need smart policies to ensure the efficiency, integrity, and equity of voluntary carbon markets. And we need innovative models of blended finance to combine catalytic and private investment that can be deployed in emerging and developing economies. In short, the clean technologies that are taking off in the north must be available accessible and affordable across the global south," Al Jaber told the delegates.
The CO president also called for rebalancing of climate finance to focus on adaptation alongside mitigation, noting that currently "for every USD 10 spent on mitigation, only USD 1 goes to adaptation."
The CO will be an opportunity to "show that multilateralism still works," he said, and added, "It is time to replace discord with solidarity ... let's bring positivity to climate deliberations and restore hope through united climate action."
#32
Maharashtra, the state with the highest electricity demand in India, lags behind several others when it comes to energy transition to renewable sources. This is mainly due to slow renewable energy uptake in the state and its inability to shut down older, polluting coal power plants, said a report on Monday. It should nevertheless be considered that though Maharashtra lags on the transition parameter in percentage terms, because of its greater net power generation, it has a higher reference point for a comparison with other states.
Maharashtra, the state with the highest electricity demand in India, lags behind several others when it comes to energy transition to renewable sources. This is mainly due to slow renewable energy uptake in the state and its inability to shut down older, polluting coal power plants, said a report on Monday. It should nevertheless be considered that though Maharashtra lags on the transition parameter in percentage terms, because of its greater net power generation, it has a higher reference point for a comparison with other states.
"Maharashtra's renewable energy share (11%) is lower than most other states. Furthermore, it has utilised just 7% of its renewable energy potential, and about 19% of its operational coal fleet is older than 25 years, a major source of carbon emission," said a joint report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) and Ember. "Meanwhile, Karnataka and Gujarat are the Indian states making the most progress in overall preparedness and commitment in the transition to clean electricity," it said.
The report analysed sixteen Indian states, which together account for 90% of the country's annual power requirement, across four dimensions.
The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited shows a declining trend on most ACS-ARR (average cost of supply per unit of power and average revenue realized) gap components between the 2019-20 financial year and 2021-22. In addition, the sector's regulatory assets slightly increased to Rs 908 billion in 2021-22, with Rajasthan and Maharashtra contributing 51% and 11%, respectively, of that increase.
"Maharashtra had low scores despite being among the frontrunners in initiating various reforms in the power sector while other states have made significant progress over the last decade in increasing generation capacity and strengthening network infrastructure, leading to improvements in power supply. Maharashtra fell below its UDAY (Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana) loss reduction target, with AT&C (aggregate technical and commercial) losses of its discoms at 18.9% as of September 30, 2022," the report pointed out.
According to the study, Rajasthan and Maharashtra showed low participation in green markets. It said that Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, and Maharashtra have a huge potential to become renewable energy export hubs by utilising their untapped clean energy potential. These states have made limited efforts to participate in green market mechanisms like GDAM (green day ahead market), it added.
Ember is an independent, not-for-profit climate and energy think tank while the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) examines issues related to energy markets, trends, and policies.
#33

IIT-Kanpur has taken a step towards achieving the goal of a just energy transition, which aims to make the process of shifting to a better energy system a fair and just one.
IIT-Kanpur has taken a step towards achieving the goal of a just energy transition, which aims to make the process of shifting to a better energy system a fair and just one.
The Just Transition Research Centre (JTRC) at IIT-K has entered into an agreement with the Energy Security and Climate Change (ESCC) programme at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), US, to work on just energy transition globally, including in India.

IIT-K and CSIS will co-organise a series of workshops and bilateral meetings between senior officials and other key stakeholders from coal-dependent states/provinces in India, US, and South Africa. Among Indian states, they will engage with Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, enabling them to access resources and connect with senior officials working on just transition in other countries. IIT-K and CSIS will host workshops and engage extensively with the coal industry, including with unions.
As India transitions to renewable energy, over 20 million jobs, revenues for over 50 districts and six states, and local welfare schemes might be affected. The process of enabling a just transition is complex and requires a guiding roadmap through social dialogues between stakeholders. Founder of JTRC Prof Pradip Swarnakar said, "Energy transition is already happening. We have to design appropriate policy alternatives that should cover present and future demands."
#34
New Delhi, Feb 2 (PTI) Union Power Minister R K Singh said the Budget 2022-23 has everything that is required for energy transition, including a provision for additional Rs 19,500 crore to boost domestic solar equipment manufacturing by up to 45 gigawatts (GW).
New Delhi, Feb 2 (PTI) Union Power Minister R K Singh said the Budget 2022-23 has everything that is required for energy transition, including a provision for additional Rs 19,500 crore to boost domestic solar equipment manufacturing by up to 45 gigawatts (GW). In the Budget, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman provided additional Rs 19,500 crore for the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for solar cells and modules manufacturing domestically.

This will raise the existing PLI scheme for solar equipment from Rs 4,500 crore to Rs 24,000 crore, which will translate into creating an additional manufacturing capacity of up to 45 GW in the country.
"Whatever was required for energy transition has been provided in this Budget (presented on Tuesday). We have a challenge of energy transition before us. The energy transition is necessary to deal with climate change," the minister said.
He added that the government has to move towards lower energy sources which cause either lower emissions or none at all.
"We need to do two things. First, we need to produce solar equipment here (in India) which is imported. The government has provided additional Rs 19,500 crore for PLI for solar manufacturing," Singh said.
He also stated that PLI is a big scheme and helps to create a production capacity of 40 GW to 45 GW of solar equipment here in India, which ranges from polysilicon to modules.
In her Budget Speech, Sitharaman said that to facilitate domestic manufacturing for the ambitious goal of 280-GW installed solar capacity by 2030, an additional allocation of Rs 19,500 crore for the PLI scheme will be made.

In April 2021, the Union Cabinet approved a Rs 4,500-crore PLI scheme to boost the domestic manufacturing capacity of solar PV modules.
When the scheme was approved in April 2021, it was aimed at adding a 10,000-megawatt (MW) manufacturing capacity of integrated solar PV modules, entailing a direct investment of Rs 17,200 crore at present.
About raising import duty on solar modules from 20 per cent to 40 per cent, Singh stated that "we will use made-in-India solar modules and, therefore, 40 per cent customs duty will be imposed from April 1, 2022".
The Budget document has also proposed to raise import duty on solar cells to 25 per cent from 20 per cent from April 1, 2022.
The minister also said, "(The) government has also provided for green bonds for investment in clean energy projects like green hydrogen".
Sitharaman also proposed that as part of the government's overall market borrowings in 2022-23, sovereign green bonds will be issued for mobilising resources for green infrastructure.
The proceeds will be deployed in public sector projects, which helps in reducing the carbon intensity of the economy.
She also talked about co-firing five to seven per cent biomass pellets in thermal power plants, resulting in CO2 savings of 38 MMT (million metric tonnes) annually.
Regarding giving the infrastructure status to battery energy storage systems, Singh stated that this will improve the credit facility for big projects.
The Budget has proposed that energy storage systems, including dense charging infrastructure and grid-scale battery systems, will be included in the harmonised list of infrastructure. This will facilitate credit availability for clean energy storage.
Singh said the government will also bring out a battery-swapping policy and make green mobility zones.
He added that there could be such zones in overcrowded areas like Connaught Place or Sarojini Nagar.
The minister also lauded the provision of blending of biomass pellets with fuel in thermal power plants.
Jakson Solar Chief Operating Officer Anurag Garg said, "An additional allocation of Rs 19,500 crore for PLI for the manufacturing of high-efficiency modules with a priority to fully integrate manufacturing units from polysilicon to solar PV modules is a welcome move for the sector."
He added that it will give further impetus to investments in India, generate more employment and pave the way for an Atmanirbhar Bharat. PTI KKS HRS hrs
#35
Maharashtra, with the highest electricity demand in India, was mid-table when it came to energy transition to renewable sources among all the states in the country. This was mainly due to slow renewable energy uptake in the state and the inability to shut down older polluting coal power plants, a national report on state's energy transition (SET) said on Monday.
"Maharashtra's renewable energy share (11%) is lower than most other states. Furthermore, it has utilised just 7% of its renewable energy potential, and about 19% of its operational coal fleet (~4.7GW) is older than 25 years, a major source of carbon emission. Meanwhile, Karnataka and Gujarat are the Indian states making the most progress in overall preparedness and commitment in the transition to clean electricity," a joint report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) and Ember shows.
The report analyses 16 Indian states, which together account for 90% of the country's annual power requirement, across four dimensions. Ember is an independent, not-for-profit climate and energy think tank while the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) examines issues related to energy markets, trends, and policies.
Maharashtra's Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) also shows a declining trend on most ACS- ARR ( average cost of supply per unit of power and average revenue realized) gap components between FY2019 and FY2021. In addition, the sector's regulatory assets slightly increased to Rs 908.32 billion (US$11 billion) in FY2021, with Rajasthan and Maharashtra contributing 51% and 11%, respectively, of that increase.
Maharashtra had low scores despite being among the front-runners in initiating various reforms in the power sector while other states have made significant progress over the last decade in increasing generation capacity and strengthening network infrastructure leading to improvements in power supply. Maharashtra fell below its UDAY (Ujwal Discom assurance yojana) loss reduction target, with AT&C (aggregate technical and commercial losses) losses of its DISCOMs at 18.9% as of September 30, 2022," report pointed out.
According to the study Rajasthan and Maharashtra showed low participation in green markets, with just 7MUs, and 112MUs, respectively, purchased or sold through GDAM (green day ahead market), a new market segment to trade the day-ahead contracts (DACs) for renewable generation. In fact Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, and Maharashtra have a huge potential to become renewable energy export hubs by utilising their untapped clean energy potential, the report said. These states have made limited efforts to participate in green market mechanisms like GDAM, it added.
In another dimension of qualifying the intent to accelerate electricity transition at the state level through the four parameters - Avoiding coal power lock in, flexibility and battery policy, circular economy, banking restrictions-- state has performed at an average, report added. According to experts introducing private sector participation and competition would bring more capital and management expertise into the electricity sector. This will help enhance operational efficiency and increase accessibility and affordability.
"Even the long-considered front-runners of adding renewable energy capacity have to improve the readiness of their power ecosystems for a clean electricity transition. State energy departments also need to strengthen electricity infrastructure for better integration of renewables. In addition to managing the demand and supply of electricity, ensuring effective utilisation, monitoring, and tracking of electrons is also very important," says co-author Aditya Lolla, Senior Electricity Policy Analyst, Ember.
"We found limited participation of states in green market mechanisms like the Green Day Ahead Market (GDAM), Green Term Ahead Market (GTAM) and more. Developing a more robust market is an opportunity to support states with low renewable energy potential. To achieve this, states need to take urgent actions like removing banking restrictions and allowing banking of renewable energy not just monthly but also quarterly and yearly, especially for wind generation," says co-author Saloni Sachdeva Michael, Energy Analyst, IEEFA.
#36
A recent assessment conducted by the International Energy Agency (IEA) concerning India's energy transition emphasizes that cooking remains the most challenging aspect of this transition, especially for rural households. The shift to cleaner fuels in rural households is a complex and nonlinear process. Numerous initiatives have been created to bridge these gaps and address the nonlinearity, but the transition to cleaner cooking alternatives has not progressed at the anticipated pace.
The recent analysis from IEA (International Energy Agency) on energy transition in India highlights that cooking continues to be the weakest link in the energy transition process for rural households and that rural energy transition of households to cleaner fuel is nonlinear in nature. Several programs have been designed to plague the voids and address this nonlinearity, but the transition to cleaner alternatives for cooking did not happen in the pace it should ideally have.
Therefore, an empirical exercise was carried out at a national level to revisit the disconnect between income growth and energy transition and identify the drivers of the energy transition process in cooking at the national as well as at the subnational state level for a developing country. The paper adds to the current scholarship on drivers of household energy transition by analyzing the relationship between household energy choices and non-income determinants and proves the nonlinearity in energy consumption of rural households of Bihar. Analyzing unit level records from National Sample Survey, an empirical exercise was carried out by using multinomial logit model to identify the potential determining factors at the individual household and group level. The group effect analysis through fixed and random effect has been conducted purposely to understand if social and cultural norms or community-level factors within a village society have any effect on the cooking energy transition of rural households and if that offsets the effect of household income in energy transition for cooking. Furthermore, to statistically examine the perceived non-linearity in the consumption of cooking fuel such as firewood by rural households, Brock-Dechert-Scheinkman (BDS) test was conducted for rural households of 38 districts of Bihar. The analysis helps in inferring that subsidy on modern fuel and/or other cooking alternatives alone may not suffice to drive the transition process, but more targeted intervention rooted in the local cultural context in consonance with social and cultural norms or community-level factors could be more effective for sustained rural energy transition.
Name of the journal: Sustainability
Co-authors: Kaushik Ranjan Bandyopadhyay, Professor, IIM Lucknow; Preeti Singh; Amulya Gurtu, University of Kansas, Overland Park, KS, US
#37

Tamil Nadu boasts of the highest installed capacity of renewable energy sources but performs poorly with regard to transition to clean and green energy, says a study by Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis. Karnataka, it says, is the only one that scored well across all dimensions of clean electricity transition, followed by Gujarat.
Tamil Nadu boasts of the highest installed capacity of renewable energy sources but performs poorly with regard to transition to clean and green energy, says a study by Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis. Karnataka, it says, is the only one that scored well across all dimensions of clean electricity transition, followed by Gujarat.
Tamil Nadu boasts of the highest installed capacity of renewable energy sources but performs poorly with regard to transition to clean and green energy, says a study by Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis. Karnataka, it says, is the only one that scored well across all dimensions of clean electricity transition, followed by Gujarat.
Sixteen states, whose combined electricity demand constituted about 90% of the country's annual power requirement, were evaluated, rated on decarbonisation, performance of power system, readiness of power ecosystem, and policies and political commitments.
While TN's performance ranged from average to well in the first three parameters, policies and political commitments is where it was poor.
As the long-considered front-runners in building new renewables capacity, TN and Rajasthan showed promising progress in decarbonising power systems, but fell short in their power sectors' relative performance and readiness to transition to clean electricity, it said.
"This is mainly due to a lack of policy intent to move future power systems away from coal and weak banking provisions, leading to the lowest possible scores on these two parameters. According to GEM, in June 2022, TN had about 5.7GW of new coal capacity under construction and 4GW in the pre-construction stages.
It has been reluctant to commit to no new coal announcements despite studies suggesting that this can save billions of rupees," said the report. Chief minister
M K Stalin had claimed TN would achieve net zero emission targets well in advance.
Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha were on par with TN on political commitments, it said. Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan have to improve readiness of their power ecosystems for a clean electricity transition," said Aditya Lolla, co-author of the study and Senior Electricity Policy Analyst, Ember.
"State energy departments need to strengthen electricity infrastructure for better integration of renewables. In addition to managing the demand and supply of electricity, ensuring effective utilisation, monitoring, and tracking of electrons is also very important."
#38
Transition VC has partnered with Telangana's T-Hub and IEEE to launch India's first energy transition-focused startup accelerator in Hyderabad. The initiative aims to support deep-tech hardware startups, providing R&D and prototyping facilities to address the current shortage in the startup ecosystem.
Energy transition-focused venture capital fund Transition VC on Tuesday inked a memorandum of understanding with the Telangana govt-led T-Hub and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) to set up India's first energy transition-focused startup accelerator. As part of the collaboration, a centre of excellence was also set up at T-Hub in Hyderabad.
The first cohort of the accelerator will support four to five startups with plans to expand support to around seven to eight startups in the subsequent cohorts.
Transition VC Co-Founder & Managing Partner Mohammed Shoeb Ali said India's startup ecosystem faced a shortage of energy transition and deep-tech hardware startups, and the partnership aimed to create a supportive ecosystem for entrepreneurs by equipping them with the necessary technical and product development infrastructure.
"Building hardware products in deep-tech requires significant investment in R&D and prototyping, which is often a deterrent for many engineers," he said.
T-Hub CEO Mahankali Srinivas Rao said the three partners would provide startups with a platform to co-create impactful solutions.
#39
India on Friday invited Global South to join the recently launched Global Biofuels Alliance, saying it is willing to share its expertise with developing and less developed nations.
A global alliance for promoting biofuels was launched at the Group of 20 leaders meeting in September with a view to reducing emissions in the transportation and industrial sectors.
The Global Biofuel Alliance, which includes top producers Brazil and the US, will help build the worldwide market for trade in biofuel, which is obtained from biomass.
Speaking at the 2nd Voice of Global South Summit, Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said India achieved the target of mixing 10 per cent ethanol in petrol in May 2022, five months ahead of the deadline, and has advanced the deadline for doping 20 per cent ethanol in petrol by five years to 2025.
Turning biomass into fuel helped the world's third largest energy consumer provide an additional source of income for farmers as well as cut emissions.
"The Global Biofuels Alliance is a multi-stakeholder alliance of governments, international organisations and industries which is intended to expedite global uptake of biofuels. The alliance presently has 22 member countries and 12 international organisations and is continuously expanding. I invite countries of the Global South, those who have already not joined the GBA, to join us where we can collaborate further towards a cleaner and greener future," Puri said.

Going up from a 1.4 per cent biofuels blending in petrol in 2014, India achieved 10 per cent blending of ethanol in petrol in May 2022, helping boost farmers' income with a payment of USD 8.7 billion and also lowering carbon dioxide emission by more than 40 million metric tonnes in last 9 years, he said.
"India is keen to collaborate with countries of the global south, including for knowledge sharing, technology transfer, joint R&D activities, and development of human capabilities to name just a few areas," he said.
Puri said India stands committed to achieving net zero by 2070, reaching the nation's non-fossil energy capacity of 500 GW and meeting 50 per cent of our energy requirements from renewable energy by 2030.
Today, India has become the world's largest producer of renewable energy with 40 per cent of its installed electricity capacity coming from non-fossil fuel sources, he said, adding that solar tariffs have come down from around Rs 7 per unit in 2014 to Rs 1.99 a unit now. Similarly, wind power has fallen from Rs 3.5 per unit in 2014 to Rs 2.77.
India has also launched a national green hydrogen mission with a target of producing 5 million tonnes by 2030, making India a global hub for the production, usage and export of green hydrogen and its derivatives, he said.
"In recent times, the world has faced a truly global energy crisis born out of increased energy demand from the post-Covid recovery and geopolitical disruptions, resulting in spikes in conventional fuel prices," he said. "Effects of these extreme volatility are magnified in developing economies."
Against this backdrop, achieving energy transition is contingent on global partnerships. "Such a collaborative approach will result in optimum resource distribution, technological tie-ups and the sharing of best practices," he said.
Currently, India ranks as the third largest energy consumer globally. "We are on the rapid trajectory of becoming a 5 trillion dollar GDP economy by 2025. Consecutively, our energy demand is poised to grow exponentially. It is estimated that India alone will account for 25 per cent of the global energy incremental demand growth between 2020 and 2040, the largest incremental share by any nation."
The minister said India has taken "a pragmatic and astute middle path that underscores commitment to mitigating climate change while supporting national interests and meeting India's energy demand."
"India's broad diversification of its energy policy will help facilitate enhanced energy security. Towards this, the government of India has taken several steps including transformational policy reforms while focusing on waves of future that are non-conventional energy such as biofuels, compressed biogas, green hydrogen, solar and wind," he added.
#40
Britain and India launched a plan on Tuesday to improve connections between the world's electricity power grids to help accelerate the world's transition to greener energy.
Britain and India launched a plan on Tuesday to improve connections between the world's electricity power grids to help accelerate the world's transition to greener energy.
Launched at the COP26 climate talks in Scotland, the plan, dubbed the "Green Grids Initiative - One Sun One World One Grid", was backed by more than 80 countries, the British government said in a statement.
The initiative aims to make renewable energy the most affordable and reliable option for all countries by 2030 and was an important contribution to the world's goal of capping global warming at 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial norms.
"If the world has to move to a clean and green future, these interconnected transnational grids are going to be critical solutions," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a statement.
The plan forms a key part of a broader plan to speed up the roll out of affordable 'green' technology, covering more than 70% of the global economy and the 'Breakthrough Agenda'.
Announcing the first five goals of the plan, dubbed the 'Glasgow Breakthroughs', British Prime Minister Boris Johnson flagged high-level targets to push clean power, zero emissions autos, near-zero emission steel, low-carbon hydrogen and climate-resilient agriculture.
"By making clean technology the most affordable, accessible and attractive choice, the default go-to in what are currently the most polluting sectors, we can cut emissions right around the world," Johnson said.
Among other plans to be announced, the Global Energy Alliance for People & Planet was launched with an initial $10 billion from philanthropies and development banks to support the energy transition in the Global South.
The United States and the United Arab Emirates, meanwhile, launched AIM4C, to drive innovation in sustainable agriculture, backed by $4 billion in extra investment.
To help cut down the cost of clean technology and create markets in everything from green hydrogen and sustainable aviation fuel, the Breakthrough Energy Catalyst programme will aim to raise $30 billion, the statement said.
#41
he Adani Green Energy Gallery at the Science Museum in London, led by Gautam Adani, highlights sustainability, transformative technology, and climate science. Through interactive exhibits and commissioned models, the gallery explores innovative energy solutions for a #SustainableFuture.

Adani Green Energy Gallery on Tuesday opened at the Science Museum in London, which explores how renewable energy can help tackle climate change.
Describing the opening as red-letter day, Gautam Adani in a post on X said, "Today is a red-letter day that marks the opening of The Adani Green Energy Gallery at the Science Museum in London. We are proud of the partnership with the Science Museum, led by Sir Timothy Laurence and Sir Ian Blatchford, that made this stunning gallery a reality.
This gallery will serve as a pivotal public space in the understanding of sustainability, transformative technology and climate science. #SustainableFuture."
'Energy Revolution: The Adani Green Energy Gallery' will display the contemporary and historic objects of UK and abroad, interactive digital exhibits and commissioned models. The gallery will show how the past, present and future are shaped by human imagination and innovation and explores the role of humans in deciding our energy future.
Earlier speaking at the Gallery opening Gautam Adani said "This new gallery is about more than just clean air - or about moving away from oil and gas. It is about the energy transition we need - this world needs - and it is about the revolution that is taking place in the world of energy."
"This gallery is special because it makes us think, dream and wish for change. It shows us how our world, our economy and our own lives can change for the better," Adani added.
The gallery at the Science Museum will three sections.
In the 'Future Planet' section, visitors can explore how scientists use complex computer-based models to understand our planet, and what these tell us about the range of climate futures that might lie ahead.
In the 'Future Energy' section, technologies - and the people behind them - that are reimagining how energy is supplied and used are highlighted alongside historic artefacts which provide a longer view of the transition away from fossil fuels.
'Our Future' section looks to a new world that is being dreamt up, with children's creative ideas of how the world will meet its future energy needs displayed with expert responses to them.
'In a week when we are celebrating a record 2.25 million visits by UK residents to the museum, including a million children, this stunning gallery offers even more to ignite curiosity among those who will visit in the year ahead - provoking important conversations about the urgent need for the world to generate and use energy more sustainably" Sir Ian Blatchford, Director and Chief Executive of the Science Museum Group, said.
Energy Revolution was designed by award-winning architects, Unknown Works. A key element of sustainable design was the reuse of redundant shelves from the Science Museum's former object store. The gallery's carbon footprint has been monitored, and recyclable aluminum was used where possible.
#42
What is the core of your research?
I am a historian of energy, environment and economics. I'm broadly interested in the relationships between human societies and the energy systems they use and how such modern energy systems fuelled types of economic growth that were never seen before on Earth. I focus also on how these systems can be made more sustainable for a long-term thriving future.
You write of America's unprecedented turn to fossil fuels in the early 20th century - what drove this?
I'd emphasise the role of transport systems here. When I studied the USA's first fossil fuel transition, what stood out was how far most of the places people derived this energy were from where people ended up using it. Secondly, while it wasn't simple to mine or drill, the real struggle was building ways of moving energy in reliable and scalable steps to where consumers lived - that came down to canals and pipelines which shipped oil and wires which transmitted electricity. Understanding our energy systems looks different when you put those transport networks front and centre.
You write of energy's benefits in the US being very unequal - why was this?
Inequality has been endemic to our fossil fuel regime - it goes back to where power is extracted and where it gets used. The regions which produce energy benefit far less than the places which consume it. The big cities of the US eastern seaboard grew tremendously during the era of fossil fuel expansion - New York, Philadelphia and Baltimore boomed, with many profitable industries benefitting. But people in rural areas bore very real costs of mining, from industrial accidents to health impacts. Bringing coal and oil up from underground leached toxic minerals into their water supplies and damaged their lands. These people had to face much more of the costs of these energy systems than consumers who were far away.
You chronicle America's first energy transition as being marked by 'fraud, failure and frustration' - why so?
I was trying to capture how in the early transition to fossil fuels, it was remarkably hard to get consumers to even want these - I think this is an analogy to today when we are still in the early stages of the renewable energy transition. When coal and oil first emerged, people were quite uncertain about them - they were also very unsure about having constantly running electricity through the walls of their houses. It took a long time to convince people this was safe. Certain coals wouldn't burn well and some opened fire. Switching from woodfire to coal also meant getting costly stoves and abandoning the pleasant smell and light wood offered. Similarly, oil, used in lanterns, was often poorly refined and exploded. At the start, these energy transitions were not as obvious as they seem in retrospect - people had to work to convince consumers to try them.
I wrote about 'fraud' apropos America's first coal transition which happened with anthracite coal which is very hard to burn. It's above 90% carbon - to light it, you need a very hot fire and air to go through this in a particular way. Since consumers didn't know how to do this, some of the first coal merchants were accused of being fraudsters selling useless black stone.
We imagine energy as being abstract - what does its 'materiality' mean?
Before fossil fuels, almost all our energy came from plants, like those we grew to feed ourselves, our animals - which were then used for labour - or trees which were burnt for heat and cooking. Energy was mostly local - you grew this near you. So, people's connection to it was very different.
With the materiality of fossil fuel systems, there are absolutely enormous networks that are behind the scenes when we press a switch or refuel a car. The modern world has been designed around making energy easy to access - but energy only seems 'invisible' when you've built huge systems of pipes, wires and terminals across landscapes. Energy can also seem abstract when those using it don't have to see the consequences of producing it - people lighting their homes in New York aren't seeing the West Virginia mountains being cleared for coal.
what does your term 'petromyopia' mean?
Many analysts equate energy only with oil - for much of the 20th century, oil has arguably been the most attractive energy source. It's dramatic, tied to geopolitics and appears in cultural forms like movies. Yet, I've found oil has never been more than 35% of global energy consumption. Human societies use many other energy sources which are just as foundational to how they live, work and play - petromyopia hides the ways coal, natural gas, biomass, animal power and human labour are essential parts of our energy systems.
#43
Budget 2024 expectations: Policy push has been a key factor in the power segment's clean energy transition. Spurred by renewables, this transformation is set to pick up pace over the rest of the decade.
By Sehul Bhatt
Budget 2024 expectations: For India to achieve its net-zero goal, the power sector will have to play a pivotal role as it is a significant contributor to emissions. According to The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) estimates, power generation accounted for ~45% of the country's annual CO2 emissions, largely because coal-based generation continued to comprise 74% of overall power generation as of fiscal 2024.
That is the reason the government's agenda has been driven by power decarbonisation and renewable energy integration for some time now.
As part of its UN Climate Change Conference in Glasgow (COP 26) Nationally Determined Contribution goals, India has committed to a five-pronged plan called Panchamrit, which includes a commitment to increase the share of power generation from clean fuels to 50% by 2030.
The main challenge is these Panchamrit goals need to be implemented against a backdrop of soaring power demand, which clocked a compound annual growth rate of 8.4% between fiscals 2021 and 2024. Instant surges in power requirement are also on the rise, as indicated by peak demand hitting an all-time high of 250 GW in fiscal 2025 (April - May) compared with ~184 GW in 2020.
As of fiscal 2024, solar and wind technologies (the main clean fuel sources in India) accounted for 11% of total generation. Add hydropower capacity and the share would rise to 19%.
Covering the gap between 19% renewable power generation and the 50% target is a tall order as efficiency levels of power generation through coal could be ~70%, while that of solar and wind are only 25-35% as on date.
To wit, solar and wind capacity will have to increase by 3x to match the power generation of a single coal plant, leading to high land and transmission requirements. Hydropower has its own set of challenges such as long gestation timelines, a large social and environmental impact and usage of shared water resources.
That said, the Indian government has propelled growth in the renewable energy sector through agile policy making and critical routine interventions. For instance, the Production Linked Incentive scheme aims to foster the battery ecosystem and production of high-efficiency modules.
The Viability Gap Funding scheme aims to support critical segments such as power storage and new areas such as offshore wind. The Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme, on its part, targets to improve the operational efficiency and financial sustainability of power distribution companies.
Further, regulators are constantly updating bidding guidelines to resolve sectoral issues and providing extensions to key projects to sustain the sector's momentum.
Against this backdrop, CRISIL MI&A expects the power installed base to surge from ~442 GW as of fiscal 2024 to 715-720 GW by fiscal 2029. Solar, wind, storage and hydro will cumulatively account for ~60% of the total installed base, indicating a 2.7-fold increase in installed capacity compared with the combined base of 156 GW as of fiscal 2024 and a rise in the share renewables, including hydro and storage, to 35-40% of total generation by fiscal 2029.

Given escalating demand and the intermittent nature of power supply from clean energy sources such as solar and wind, regulators are planning to supplement renewable power generation with storage support. CRISIL expects 35-37 GW of storage support to be available by fiscal 2029 to maintain a stable power system, mainly through battery and pumped storage plant technologies.
Cumulatively, this implies an investment of Rs 10-10.5 trillion on renewables (solar and wind), out of a total investment of Rs 17-17.5 trillion in the generation segment over fiscal 2025-2029, as other fuels continue to witness moderate additions considering demand dynamics.
The clean energy push will impact not only generation but also transmission and distribution segments, as grid augmentation and grid stability support mechanisms have to be in place to ensure power systems are able to absorb such high levels of renewable capacity addition. These segments have to regularly upgrade and expand their capacity to cater to rising power needs. Consequently, investments of Rs 6.5-7 trillion are expected to be made on grid augmentation and grid stability support over fiscals 2025-2029.
In the milieu, the Budget can look at providing support to specific segments.

Within the clean energy spectrum, hydro is an important alternative being looked at, especially with multiple announcements on pumped storage projects. Government support is crucial to mitigate challenges in execution of hydro projects as it could pare high capital costs and pique the private sector's interest.
On the power distribution front, implementation of the Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme could be enhanced by providing further financing support to utilities.
To provide interim relief to solar developers while domestic supply chains are stabilising, trade policy related nuances require a close look - especially for solar photovoltaics - in view of a significant shift in procurement dynamics in the recent past.
Overall, policy push has been a key factor in the power segment's clean energy transition. Spurred by renewables, this transformation is set to pick up pace over the rest of the decade. Continued investor interest and private sector participation, too, are critical levers to enhance this transition.

#44
Adani Green Energy Limited (AGEL), renewable energy company and the world's second-largest solar PV developer, has initiated power generation from the world's largest renewable energy park in Khavda, Gujarat.
According to a press release, with the commencement of operations at the first 551 MW solar capacity, AGEL has embarked on a transformative journey towards clean energy generation, marking a milestone in India's renewable energy landscape.
AGEL's swift achievement within 12 months of commencing work on the Khavda RE park underscores its unparalleled commitment to advancing renewable energy infrastructure.
The project's inception involved the development of crucial infrastructure, including roads and connectivity, and the creation of a sustainable social ecosystem, transforming the challenging terrain of the Rann of Kutch into a thriving environment for its workforce of 8,000.
Strategically positioned to leverage the region's abundant wind and solar resources, the Khavda RE park is poised to emerge as a global leader in renewable energy generation.
AGEL's plans include developing 30 GW of renewable energy capacity at the site, making it the largest renewable energy installation worldwide.
Upon completion, the Khavda RE park is projected to power 16.1 million homes annually, setting a new benchmark for giga-scale clean energy projects.
Gautam Adani, Chairman of the Adani Group, expressed pride in AGEL's achievement, stating, "Adani Green Energy is creating one of the world's most extensive renewable energy ecosystems for solar and wind. Through bold and innovative projects like the Khavda RE plant, AGEL continues to set higher global benchmarks and rewrite the world's planning and execution standards for giga-scale renewable energy projects. This milestone is a validation of the Adani Group's commitment and leading role in accelerating India's equitable clean energy transition journey towards its ambitious goals of 500 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030 and carbon neutrality."
AGEL's commitment to sustainable growth extends beyond power generation to encompass indigenous and sustainable supply chains and environmental stewardship.
Extensive studies and innovative solutions have been deployed to accelerate the project's development, including geotechnical investigations, seismic studies, and environmental assessments.
The project showcases AGEL's dedication to advancing India's renewable energy goals while fostering economic growth and environmental sustainability.
The Khavda RE park represents a paradigm shift in India's clean energy transition journey, aligning with the nation's ambitious target of achieving 500 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030 and carbon neutrality.
#45
Ambuja Cements, controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani, will invest $723 million to build 1,000 MW of renewable power projects. The projects include solar and wind power plants in Gujarat and Rajasthan. The company aims to increase green energy usage to 60% of its planned capacity. Adani Group plans to invest $100 billion in green energy transition over the next decade, with five firms aiming to become net zero emitters by 2050. Adani and Mukesh Ambani are champions of renewable energy projects.
Ambuja Cements Ltd, which the Adani Group acquired from Holcim Ltd last year, will be funding this investment through internal accruals..
Ambuja Cements Ltd, controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani, said it will invest 60 billion rupees ($723 million) to build 1,000 megawatt of renewable power projects as the Indian conglomerate seeks to move rapidly toward its net zero goals.The Mumbai-based cement maker, which the Adani Group acquired from Holcim Ltd last year, will be funding this investment through internal accruals, it said in an exchange filing Monday. Ambuja is targeting using green energy for 60% of its 140 million ton planned capacity a year, up from the current 19%, it added.The projects include a 600 MW solar power and 150 MW wind power plant in the western state of Gujarat in India and a 250 MW solar plant in neighboring Rajasthan by March 2026, according to the filing, on top of the existing 84 MW of green energy capacity in Ambuja Cements. It'll reduce the cost of green energy generation by 20% from 6.46 rupees per kilowatt-hour, to 5.16 rupees per kWh and increase the supply of green cement.The sprawling conglomerate led by Adani, Asia's second-richest person, plans to invest $100 billion in its green energy transition over the next decade, with five of its firms aiming to become net zero emitters by 2050. Adani and billionaire Mukesh Ambani - both built their fortunes on fossil fuels - have emerged as champions of renewable energy, bolstering Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mission to decarbonize India and make it carbon neutral by 2070.
Besides Ambuja Cements, group firms Adani Green Energy Ltd, Adani Energy Solutions Ltd, Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone Ltd and ACC Ltd have set a 2050 carbon net zero target, the conglomerate said in a statement last week.Its businesses were "actively sourcing renewables, electrifying operations and adopting biofuels, and deploying waste heat recovery and energy storage technologies" to speed up the transition, it said.
#46
Three of India's biggest state-owned enterprises - Coal India Limited (CIL), NTPC, and Indian Railways - can help the country reach its climate goals. This, while seizing a share of the clean energy market and mitigating an estimated 22-28% cash flow gap, by 2050.
As the country gears itself towards net-zero, a new report 'India's State-Owned Energy Enterprises, 2020-2050: Identifying Evidence-Based Diversification Strategies' by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) uses public sector undertakings (PSUs) in the coal sector to show how energy businesses can identify their future uncertainties while also identifying opportunities in the changing energy system.
It found that between 2020 and 2050, under the net-zero aligned pathway, CIL and Indian Railways could face a Rs415 billion (28%) and Rs2,112 billion (22%) reduction in cash flow, respectively, while NTPC's cash flow could drop by Rs404 billion (22%) compared to a business-as-usual scenario.
However, researchers say, taking concrete measures in the next few years to diversify businesses can allow these firms and similar PSUs to alleviate future uncertainty and avoid revenue gaps.

For instance, the study finds that it is critical for PSUs to create net-zero roadmaps with interim targets for the firm - which can become a guide for future decisions - and develop in-house estimates on the financial impact of the changing energy landscape. "They can also use their ability to raise capital at favourable rates to identify diversification strategies and become early adopters of clean energy technologies. To do so, firms should set clean energy targets in proportion to the potential scale and speed of the financial implications, and periodically increase the ambition of these targets," the study stated.

Making their ambitions toward achieving a clean energy transition public can send positive market signals, that can further strengthen previously mentioned measures, said experts. "As major employers in the conventional energy sector, PSUs are key actors in reaching India's climate and energy targets, and they should involve other relevant stakeholders in the decision-making process. State-owned companies can be part of India's clean energy future while continuing to bring revenues to the government, creating jobs, and supporting local communities," says co-author of the report Balasubramanian Viswanathan, who is also policy advisor at IISD.
CLEAN MONEY
Coal India Limited (CIL), NTPC, and Indian Railways face 22-28% cash flow gap by 2050
Study shows how to identify future uncertainties, opportunities in changing energy system
Concrete measures to diversify businesses will alleviate uncertainty, avoid revenue gaps
PSUs should create net-zero roadmaps, develop in-house estimates on financial impact
Access capital at favourable rates to become early adopters of clean energy technologies
Clean energy transition will send positive market signals, sustain revenues, create jobs, support local communities
#47

Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged for a balanced distribution of green energy investments, currently skewed towards developed nations. In his address at the International Solar Festival, he emphasized democratizing technology for developing countries. Modi highlighted India's solar achievements and its dedication to expanding clean energy access globally, aiming for a livable planet.
Amid reports of how most of the renewable energy investment is being directed to developed countries, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the imbalance in concentration of green energy investments needs to be addressed.
His remarks came in a video message to the first International Solar Festival being held in Delhi. Though the Prime Minister did not elaborate on it, he emphasised that manufacturing and technology need to be democratised to help developing countries.
Reports suggest that about 74% of the total investments in solar energy have, so far, gone to the developed countries and China.

The share goes to 80% of total investment if India is added to the list. The other developing countries, mainly the least developing ones, are, however, struggling to get the share.
"Empowering least developed countries and small island developing states (nations) should be a top priority. Inclusion of marginalised communities, women and youth is crucial. I am confident that the International Solar Festival will enable discussions in such matters," said Modi.
Ajay Mathur, director general, International Solar Alliance (ISA), too admitted such imbalance. He while addressing the gathering on the occasion said, "Solar investment is still concentrated in a few countries, but we are deeply committed to building momentum for universal clean energy access, making solar the cornerstone of global prosperity and a livable planet."
Speaking about India's efforts towards increasing its footprints of green energy, Modi said, "We were the first G20 nation to achieve the Paris commitments in renewable energy. The remarkable growth of solar energy is a key reason in making this possible. Our solar energy capacity has increased 32-fold in the last 10 years. This speed and scale will also help us achieve five hundred (500) gigawatt non-fossil capacity by 2030."

India is one of the founding members of the ISA on the sidelines of the UN climate conference in Paris in 2015. The Alliance currently has 100 countries as its members.
"The growth of this organization is important for the vision of 'One World, One Sun, One Grid.'...In a short time, the ISA has made a lot of progress. In 44 countries, it has assisted in developing nearly 10 gigawatt of electricity... A number of promising solar startups from Africa, Asia-Pacific, and India are being encouraged. This initiative will also be expanded to Latin America and the Caribbean soon. These are noteworthy steps in the right direction," said the Prime Minister.
The two-day festival aims to strengthen support for innovative financing, technology deployment, capacity building, and technical assistance to accelerate the energy transition by expanding footprints of solar power.
#48
Tata Power and Asian Development Bank (ADB) have partnered to explore financing options for Tata Power's strategic projects in India. The potential investment of $4.25 billion will support projects focused on renewable energy, power infrastructure enhancement, and energy transition initiatives. This collaboration aims to advance India's clean energy capacity and modernize its power infrastructure.
Tata Power on Thursday said it has signed an initial pact with Asian Development Bank (ADB) to evaluate financing worth $ 4.25 billion for its several strategic projects. A memorandum of understanding has been signed with ADB at Baku, Azerbaijan, Tata Power said in a statement."The MoU has been signed evaluate financing for its several strategic projects aimed at enhancing India's power infrastructure and promoting renewable and clean energy," it said.The total estimated project cost is about $ 4.25 billion, Tata Power said.The MoU outlines the evaluation of financing for several key ongoing projects such as the 966-MW solar wind hybrid project and pumped hydro storage project and other projects in the pipeline around energy transition, decarbonisation, and battery storage as well as ongoing financing for capex towards strengthening the distribution networks.Tata Power CEO and Managing Director Praveer Sinha said, "Collaboration with ADB is a crucial step as we explore innovative financing solutions to drive transformative power sector projects. The MoU reinforces our commitment to advancing India's clean and renewable energy capacity and modernising our power infrastructure, ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth."ADB Director General for Private Sector Operations Suzanne Gaboury said, "ADB is committed to fostering partnerships that promote sustainability and energy security across Asia and the Pacific."
Tata Power has a diversified portfolio of 15,010 MW, spanning across the entire power value chain -- from renewable and conventional energy generation to transmission and distribution, trading, storage solutions and solar cells and module manufacturing.
#49
As part of the Norway-India global energy transition partnership, the Norwegian Climate Investment Fund will take up a 49-per cent stake in a 420-MW solar power plant in Rajasthan, the Scandinavian nation's embassy here said on Monday. The new Norwegian Climate Investment Fund, managed by Norfund and KLP, Norway's largest pension company, will take a 49-per cent stake in the Thar Surya 1 solar energy project for approximately Rs 280 crore, according to a statement issued by the embassy.
The 420-MWDC (300-MWAC) solar power plant is being built in Rajasthan by Italian firm Enel Green Power.
"Norway and India are partners in the global energy transition. Through the Climate Investment Fund, managed by Norfund, Norway is delivering on its climate finance commitments while contributing to India's energy security and clean power supply," Norwegian Ambassador Hans Jacob Frydenlund was quoted as saying in the statement.
When up and running, the project will deliver more than 750 GWh per year.
The climate investment fund will allocate 10 billion Norwegian Krone (approximately USD 1 billion) over the next five years, with India being a priority market, the statement said.
"This summer with extreme heat and drought in many parts of the world has shown us, more clearly than ever, that there is no time to waste in the fight against climate change," Norway's Minister of International Development Anne Beathe Tvinnereim said.

"That is why it is such good news that in record time, the Climate Investment Fund's money is already working for these crucial investments in renewable energy," she added.
Norfund, the Norwegian government's development finance institution, has stitched up a strategic investment partnership with Enel Green Power in India, the statement said.
"This is the first investment we are making with Enel and together, we have great ambitions to contribute with similar investments in India in the years to come," Norfund CEO Tellef Thorleifsson was quoted as saying in the statement.
"KLP and Norfund have been investing in developing countries together for a decade and we are very excited to enter a market like India where there is such a great need for renewable energy," KLP CEO Sverre Thornes said. 
#50
Though Odisha has only 3.47% of the country's population, its net greenhouse gas (GHG) emission stood at 9.3%. A report - 'Challenges and Policy Implications of a Low Carbon Pathway for Odisha - released by National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) on Tuesday revealed that in per capita terms, net emission from Odisha is 6.15 tCO2e (tonnes of carbon dioxide), which is at a higher side of the national average of 2.24 tCO2e in 2018.
Experts say the data indicates that it's high time for policy makers to come up with solutions to lower carbon footprint to achieve net-zero emission target. They say the state, which has abundance of coal and thermal energy resources, will remain on a path of high emission.
The report says Odisha's economy will hover around 6% per annum growth from 2022 to 2050 and per capita emissions will rise from 6.69 tonnes CO2e in 2030 to 31.41 tonnes CO2e in 2050 if focus does not shift on renewable energy sources.
Sanjib Pohit, professor, NCAER and project leader of the report, said only by understanding the combined forces of behavioural realities, markets, prices, technical innovation and infrastructure, coherent responses can be built to facilitate transition of energy systems.
Considering coal mining and coal electricity sectors as major providers of employment, the study estimated that the effect of energy transition on direct employment in the said sector would lead to 83,000 less direct employments in the energy sector by 2050.
Experts suggest different models to deal with the scenario of mitigating the effect on employment while smoothly making a transition to green energy resources. Interlinkage of renewable energy with other sectors of economy will prevent employment shrinkage, they said.
The report emphasised on triggering energy transition by dampening the growth of fossil electricity through taxation which should be distributed to the renewable electricity. Among mitigation strategies, the report suggested shift to renewable energy, particularly solar power, from coal, adoption of battery or solar-based electric vehicles, construction of green buildings and adoption of green technology in agriculture.
#51
The UN human rights office has expressed concern over the arrest of a Vietnamese green energy expert just days after President Joe Biden signed business and human rights deals with Hanoi. Ngo Thi To Nhien, the Executive Director of the Vietnam Initiative for Energy Transition, was detained by Hanoi police on September 15. Nhien had previously worked with the World Bank, the United Nations Development Programme, and the United States aid agency.

The UN human rights office has expressed concern about the arrest of a Vietnamese green energy expert, who had worked with UN and US agencies.(File photo: AFP)
The UN human rights office has expressed concern about the arrest of a Vietnamese green energy expert, who had worked with UN and US agencies, just days after President Joe Biden signed business and human rights deals with Hanoi on a visit.
Hanoi police on Sept. 15 detained Ngo Thi To Nhien, Executive Director of the Vietnam Initiative for Energy Transition (VIET), an independent think tank focused on green energy policy, Reuters reported last week citing a charity and a source.
"We are aware of the arrest and are following the developments with concern," Ravina Shamdasani, a spokesperson for the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) told Reuters in a statement.
Nhien had worked for the World Bank, with the United Nations Development Programme and the United States aid agency (USAID), according to her profile on LinkedIn.

She "has participated in international and national events, including consultations organized by UNDP on the topic of energy transition," the UNDP in Vietnam confirmed in an email message to Reuters.
A State Department official said Washington regularly calls on Vietnam to respect and protect human rights, but had no specific comment on Nhien's detention and its timing close to Biden's visit.
Over the last two years Vietnam has arrested five environmental human rights defenders accusing them of tax evasion, a OHCHR spokesperson said in June, noting the arrests happened while the country was negotiating international funding for energy transition away from coal, of which it is a major user.
Nhien kept a very low public profile and was considered an expert, not an activist.
Vietnam's government has not issued any public statement about Nhien's arrest, and did not reply to requests for comment.
On Friday, Vietnam also executed a man, Le Van Manh, who had been sentenced to death in July 2005 after being found guilty of murder, child rape and robbery.
The European Union had called to halt the execution.
Phil Robertson, Deputy Asia Director at Human Rights Watch, said Manh had a strong alibi which was disregarded.
#52
The US here on Wednesday announced a new voluntary carbon market offset initiative to finance the decommissioning of coal and accelerate clean energy transition in developing countries even as the move raised concerns among experts who believed that the American proposal is no substitute for the real public finance that these countries need."This initiative, the Energy Transition Accelerator (ETA), will catalyze private capital to accelerate the energy transition in developing countries, supporting the rapid deployment of renewables and delivering deeper and earlier emissions reductions," said the US presidential climate envoy, John Kerry, while jointly announce the plan with two philanthropies - The Rockefeller Foundation and the Bezos Earth Fund - on the sidelines of the UN climate talks (COP27).Noting that it would be a new public-private effort to unlock finance, Kerry said, "Our intention is to put the carbon market to work to deploy capital to speed the transition from dirty to clean power, specifically for two purposes - to retire unabated coal fired power and accelerate renewables."According to the plan, one idea for the ETA will be to open it only to companies committed to achieving net zero no later than 2050 and science-based interim targets to promote environmental integrity in the use of carbon credits.
"Other provisions will establish strong transparency requirements and address how companies' investments in verified emissions reductions through the ETA could be recognized," said the US state department in a statement.Explaining it further, it said the companies, for instance, could use credits to support mitigation above and beyond their interim targets, to contribute to climate finance or other voluntary goals, or to contribute to a host country's NDC (climate action plan) achievement.Explanations and caveats have, however, not cut ice with experts. "Carbon offsets are not an answer in a world already on fire, underwater and facing mounting climate losses and damage. While the exact details are still unclear, the outlines of the US proposal are out of step with the science, which calls for steep, absolute emission reductions as soon as possible if we are to have any chance of meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement," said Rachel Cleetus, policy director and lead economist for the climate and energy programme at Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS).Cleetus said, "The private sector can and must play an important role in tackling the climate crisis. However, a voluntary carbon credit programme won't guarantee deep, real cuts in emissions-it's tantamount to rearranging the deck chairs as the climate ship is going down."She argued that the low- and middle-income countries need grants-based public finance from richer countries to help them quickly transition away from fossil fuels, and that's what the US must deliver, rather than questionable carbon offset schemes that risk allowing companies to pollute at the expense of the planet.Experts from India too have similar concerns. "What developing countries need is predictable finance - not offset markets. The proposed initiative cannot make up for the United States' failure to provide its fair share of climate finance - an estimated $40 billion of the unmet goal of $100 billion a year. It also should not substitute for deep decarbonization needed within the US and other industrialized countries," said Ulka Kelkar, director, climate change programme, World Resources Institute (India).She said, "For developing countries like India, who have been raising their climate ambition, the first priority would be to meet their own targets and not provide offsets for reductions in developed nations."
#53
India will be the world's third-largest economy and stock market before the end of the decade as the country has conditions in place for an economic boom fueled by offshoring, investment in manufacturing, energy transition and the advanced digital infrastructure, said Morgan Stanley in a report titled, "The New India: Why This Is India's Decade".
NEW DELHI: India will be the world's third-largest economy and stock market before the end of the decade as the country has conditions in place for an economic boom fueled by offshoring, investment in manufacturing, energy transition and the advanced digital infrastructure, said Morgan Stanley in a report titled, "The New India: Why This Is India's Decade".
Morgan Stanley is betting that India's stock market will nearly treble its market capitalisation to $10 trillion by the end of the ongoing decade, driven by strong economic growth. It expects India to drive nearly 20 percent of the world's growth as it sees current global trends benefiting the local economy.
The brokerage firm is of the view that the increase in economic growth will also trigger a boom in consumption with households having annual incomes of more than $35,000 rising five-fold to 25 million by the end of 2030.
Morgan Stanley expects the rise in income levels to push India's GDP to over $7.5 trillion by 2031 and trigger a boom in discretionary consumption.
The brokerage firm expects per capita income in India to more than double to $5,242 by 2031.
Here we decode why this is India's decade:
1.Offshoring: 'Work from India'
In the post-Covid environment, emergence of distributed delivery models,along with tighter labor markets globally,has accelerated outsourcing to India.
The number of global in-house captive centers that opened in India over the last two years was almost double that of the prior four years. During the two pandemic years, the number of people employed in this industry in India rose from 4.3 million to 5.1 million ,and the country's share of global services trade rose 60bps to 4.3%.
"In the coming decade, the number of people employed in India for jobs outside the country is likely to at least double to over 11 million,and we estimate global spending on outsourcing could rise from $180 billion per year to around US$500 billion by 2030," said Morgan Stanley.
If India is already the 'office to the world', it is increasingly becoming its factory as well
"We anticipate a wave of manufacturing capex owing to government policies aimed at lifting corporate profits' share of GDP via tax cuts and hard dollars for investing in specific sectors,and we note that performance-linked incentive (PLI) schemes now total $33 billion across 14 sectors. Multinationals are more optimistic than ever about investing in India,,and the government is encouraging investment by both building infrastructure and supplying land for factories," it added.
2. Digitalization will be another major driving force for India's growth
India's digitisation is supported by IndiaStack, which operates at population scale, is a transaction-led, low-cost,high-volume, small-ticket-size system with embedded lending. "It will take India from a 'prepaid'economy to a 'postpaid' one. The digital revolution has already changed the way India handles documents, invests,and makes payments,and it is also set to alter the way India lends, spends and insures," noted Ridham Desai.
The stack has three main layers:eKYC (biometric-based KYC), Digilocker (cloud document storage),and eSign (digital signing of documents),as well as multiple payment layers including UPI (unified payments interface), the Aadhaar-enabled payment system, or AEPS (which facilitates direct benefit transfers and other payments), the Bharat Bill Payment System, or BBPS (for payment of bills), GST (goods and services tax),Fastag (highway tolls),and income tax. This has changed the way India processes documents (especially official ones), invests,and makes payments.
Aadhaar system and its multiplier effects
Talking about the success of India's Aadhaar system, the report said it is the foundational ID for all Indians, designed to process high volumes at low cost with small-value transactions.
"With 1.3 billion people carrying a digital ID, doing financial transactions has become easy and cheap. Aadhaar has enabled the direct payment of social benefits with efficiency and no leakage. UPI has scaled well beyond expectations and now processes 4.5 billion payments per month... The Aadhaar-enabled payment system does several million transactions each month valued at over Rs250 billion. Fastaghighway toll system which collects about Rs1.3bn/day and is allowing the government to recycle road assets.Cumulative direct benefit transfers of over US$300bn to Aadhaar-linked bank accounts (Jan Dhan)," said the report.
Implications of this digital transformation include a rise in credit to GDP from 57% to 100%, better healthcare services, greater insurance penetration,a quintupling of stock market investors from 62 million (up from 20mn three years ago) to around 300 million.
3. Energy transition:
India's energy consumption and energy sources are changing simultaneously. India's daily per-capita energy consumption is around 800 Watts (excluding food, which adds another 100W). This compares with 9000W/capita/day for the US.
India's energy needs are still growing,and therefore legacy capacity using fossil fuels will not be destroyed as it transitions to a higher share of renewables. India's per-capita energy consumption is likely to rise 60% , to about 1450 Watts per day in the coming decade, with two-thirds of the incremental supply coming from renewable sources.
"We believe this will 1) positively impact India's terms of trade,2)entail about three-quarters of a trillion dollars in energy capex,3)eventually reduce headline inflation volatility as the imported energy share of GDP declines, 4) lower fertilizer subsidies,5) improve living conditions,and 6) create new demand for solutions such as electric vehicles, cold-storage chains,and green hydrogen-powered trucks and buses," said Morgan Stanley.
According to the bank, the four global trends of demographics, digitalization, decarbonization and deglobalization are favouring "New India".
Morgan Stanley estimates that the number of households earning in excess of US$35,000/year is likely to rise fivefold in the coming decade, to over 25 million.
Following are some of the other key points from the Morgan Stanley report:
E-commerce penetration to nearly double from 6.5 per cent to 12.3 per cent by 2031.
India's manufacturing share of GDP will rise to 21 per cent by 2031, implying an incremental $1 trillion manufacturing opportunity.
India's global export market share is expected to more than double at 4.5 per cent by 2031, providing an incremental $ 1.2 trillion export opportunity.
India's services exports will almost treble to $527 billion (from USD 178 billion in 2021) over the next decade.
Around 25 per cent of incremental global car sales over 2021-2030 will be from India and expect 30 per cent of 2030 passenger vehicle sales to be electric-run.
India should hit a "major inflection point" for the next residential property boom in 2030 - a confluence of high per-capita income, a mid-30s median age, and higher urbanization.
India's workforce in the technology services sector will more than double from 5.1 million in 2021 to 12.2 million in 2031.
India's competitive advantages in terms of its engineering talent pool, low-cost labor and infrastructure,and good IT
Inherently, India is a labor surplus economy. As such, its wage rate per employee is among the lowest in the world, which creates a competitive advantage for Indian firms to lower the cost of production. In 2021, the manufacturing wage for India stood at $0.8/hour, lower than Indonesia at US$1, China at US$7.1 and Korea at US$22.3.
Over $700 billion in energy investments are expected over the next decade as India accelerates its energy transition.
Morgan Stanlye predics ) India's consumers will bea global drivingforce: The brokerage project that India's private consumption will more than double from $2trillion in 2022 to $4.5 trillion by the end of the decade,a size that would be roughly similar to China in 2015. This in turn should encourage India to spearhead domestic production and export labor-intensive goods and emerge as a global leader,ushering in a manufacturing renaissance
But what are the risks?
Global recession or weak growth: With nearly 20% of its output exported - a number that will rise in coming years - the outlook for the global economy has a strong influence on India. The good news is that India has reduced its dependence on cyclical capital market flows, with its external balances now largely funded by FDI.
Developments that could hurt India's growth include
a)geopolitical events impacting commodity prices,
b) supply-side disruptions affecting both volume
and price,and
c) political gridlock and overtightening of monetary and fiscal policy.
Adverse domestic politicsand policyerrors: India could vote in a weaker government,as it has done in the past, raising the risk of policy errors, noted Morgan Stanlety. A fractious political situation could also inhibit the ability and willingness of policy makers to continue with the reforms required to achieve a sustainably higher growth rate.
Supply of skilled labor: India will need to train its labor force faster than in the past to keep pace with demand, or its wage advantage will evaporate. While India will have the largest contributor to the working-age population among the major economies, its workforce will need skills training to keep up with technological change. As per the India Skills report (2021),not even half of graduates were employable due to a
lack of relevant skills.
Steep energy and commodity price increase
The transition to non-fossil fuels will take time,and imported energy remains key to India's terms of trade. Energy-related imports (oil, coal,gas) account for a third of imports (although this is down from 44% in F12) and about 13% of the consumer price inflation. As such, rising energy prices have a negative impact given that they affect inflation, the current account deficit,and overall economic growth.
#54
US secretary of state Antony Blinken (left) meets with external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar on the sideline of the G20 foreign ministers' meeting in New Delhi on Thursday.
United States secretary of state Antony Blinken and external affairs minister S Jaishankar held a bilateral meeting on the margins of the G20 meeting on Thursday, in which they discussed the Ukraine issue, focused on cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, and reviewed bilateral ties.


The US state department said they spoke about shared efforts to elevate and expand strategic technology and defence industrial cooperation, promote food, energy and global health security, clean energy transition, counter-narcotics cooperation, and women's economic empowerment. "Secretary Blinken and minister Jaishankar also discussed how to mitigate the global impacts of Russia's illegal war in Ukraine, the US and India's cooperation in Indo-Pacific, and regional issues," it said.
#55
UK oil and gas giant Shell on Thursday watered down key targets on cutting carbon emissions, sparking anger from climate campaigners, but kept its pledge for net zero by 2050.
The London-listed group, which is investing heavily in renewables, revealed the news in an energy transition update published alongside its annual report.
Shell said it had diluted climate targets, including on "net carbon intensity", a measurement of emissions produced by each unit of energy sold by Shell.
The group said net carbon intensity would be cut 15-20 percent by 2030 compared to 2016 levels.
That marked a dilution from its previous 20-percent target owing to a slowdown in electricity sales.
For the first time, Shell gave a target on curbing customer emissions from the use of its oil products -- so-called Scope 3 emissions -- with a reduction of 15-20 percent by 2030 compared with 2021.
"Achieving this ambition will mean reducing sales of oil products, such as petrol and diesel, as we support customers as they move to electric mobility and lower-carbon fuels," Shell said.
The company maintained its plan to halve emissions generated from its own operations - Scope 1 and 2 activities - by 2030 compared with 2016.
It achieved 60 percent of this target by the end of 2023.
"Today, the world must meet growing demand for energy while tackling the urgent challenge of climate change," Shell chief executive Wael Sawan said in the update.
It confirmed plans to invest between $10-15 billion by the end of 2025 in low-carbon energy.
It added that it would drop a plan to slash net carbon intensity by 45 percent by 2035 due to "uncertainty in the pace of change in the energy transition". However, it still targets a 100-percent reduction by 2050.
'Shell backtracks'
Green campaigners lashed out at the company's latest stance, arguing it was counter to the 2015 Paris climate accord, which seeks to limit the increase in average global temperatures to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
"Shell backtracks on climate targets," said environmental activist shareholders' group Follow This.
It said the company was betting "on the failure of the Paris climate agreement".
"The company wants to stay in fossil fuels as long as possible," it warned, declaring that the move "not only endangers the global economy by exacerbating the climate crisis but also puts the company's future at risk".
However, Shell insisted it sought a "balanced and orderly transition away from fossil fuels to low-carbon energy solutions to maintain secure and affordable energy supplies".
The group also revealed that Sawan earned £8 million ($10.25 million) in salary and bonuses in 2023, his first year as CEO.
That sparked additional fury at a time when millions of Britons are still struggling under a cost-of-living crisis sparked by elevated domestic energy bills.
"Shell's CEO pay packet is a bitter pill to swallow for the millions of workers living with the high costs of energy," said Jonathan Noronha-Gant, senior fossil fuels campaigner at pressure group Global Witness
#56
On Independence Day, prime minister Narendra Modi stood on the ramparts of the Red Fort and announced a 'National Hydrogen Mission'. The symbolism of the prime minister using an address generally celebratory of Indian progress to outline a bright green future should not be glossed over or ignored. "The National Hydrogen Mission," PM Modi said, "and the green hydrogen sector will give us a quantum jump in meeting our climate targets.We have to make India a green hydrogen hub, and this will also lead to a clean energy transition."
This transition is significant enough to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. India's historically insignificant emissions are set to rise steeply over the next couple of decades. Speaking at various global business summits, Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani has said that India's journey from peak emissions to net zero will be the swiftest of any major economy on the planet. He warned though, that India's energy needs, as with the rest of the world, could not yet be met even substantially, let alone completely, by green sources of electricity such as solar and wind. But, clearly, India is on the cusp of a green energy revolution. The Adani Group, its chairman pointed out, is "putting our money where our mouth is", investing to the tune of $70 billion in the next decade to kickstart this revolution. Encouraged by the government, India's major conglomerates are racing to make the most of the opportunity represented by greening our infrastructure.
Already, the Adani Group, if contracted capacity is included, describes itself as the world's leading generator of solar power. Adani Transmission Limited (ATL) has recently said that by 2030, some 30 percent of the power it procures will be renewable, up from an estimated three percent in 2023. By that year, Mr. Adani told investors at a Bloomberg forum, "we expect to be the world's largest renewable energy company without any caveat".
This is in line with the Indian state's progression from being a major emitter of greenhouse gases (albeit not per capita) to being the only major economy to keep the promises it made six years ago in Paris at COP21. Despite convenient British and American criticism of India's supposed watering down of a resolution to phase out coal, the facts suggest that India is deeply committed to transitioning away from coal. As PM Modi has pointed out, "India is not energy independent. [India] spends over Rs 12 lakh crore on importing energy." Coal currently meets about 70 percent of India's energy needs. Bravus Mining and Resources, the Adani-owned Australian company responsible for exporting coal from the Carmichael mine, has said it has "already secured the market for the 10 million tons per annum of coal" it will produce. This coal is cleaner than the lower quality coal produced in India and, as the Australian government has claimed, could reduce global emissions by displacing even more polluting fuel.
While some activists say that all talk of transition is a delaying tactic, India has considerable incentive to free itself from being tied to volatile international fossil fuel prices. If India's growing solar capacity can be marshalled to clean up the electrolysis process necessary to cleanly extract hydrogen, it could, as Gautam Adani has insisted, be a "game-changer". India could then be net exporter of clean energy rather than a vulnerable importer of fossil fuels.
Critics have alleged that the Adani Group is trying to have it both ways, talk the green talk while walking the fossil fuel walk. But, as Gautam Adani pointed out in an address at a conference organized by global investment bank JP Morgan, it is not "green-washing" to acknowledge current realities while planning for a different, greener future. In October, the Science Museum in London announced the opening, in 2023, of a new climate change gallery called 'Energy Revolution: The Adani Green Energy Gallery' which will "explore the latest climate science and the energy revolution needed to cut global dependence on fossil fuels". In the face of outrage from some activists, Bob Ward, policy and communications director at a climate change institute affiliated to the London School of Economics, warned that "ill informed attacks" might risk "undermining efforts to replace coal with renewables in India."
"We have to make India a green hydrogen hub", PM Modi said at the Red Fort. Indian companies are ploughing billions of dollars into that effort because the potential upside is extraordinary. India's much-vaunted demographic dividend requires that the country provide enough jobs and economic opportunities to meet the aspirations of the largest and youngest middle class the world will perhaps ever see. Providing clean electricity is one of the keys to unlocking India's economic potential while maintaining net zero commitments.
No wonder so much is being bet on the future of green hydrogen.
#57
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz visited SUN Mobility facility in Bengaluru on Sunday. SUN Mobility, an electric vehicles (EVs) service provider showcased futuristic mobility and energy solutions to Scholz, the company said in a statement.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz visits SUN Mobility facility in Bengaluru
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Sunday visited SUN Mobility facility in Bengaluru. SUN Mobility, the leading provider of universal energy infrastructure and services for electric vehicles (EVs) showcased futuristic mobility and energy solutions to Scholz, the company said in a statement."With a keen interest to understand India's tech prowess and commitment to clean energy transition better, the German Chancellor visited the SUN Mobility Technology Centre as part of his day-long visit to Bengaluru on Sunday," the statement read.During the one-hour visit, SUN Mobility co-founder and chairman Chetan Maini along with the chief executive officer Anant Badjatya, interacted with the German Chancellor and discussed India's cleantech aspirations and how the country is leading the electric mobility transition with cutting-edge innovations and solutions that are designed in India, for the world, the statement said.
River Indie electric scooter walkaround: Scooter with 55 litres of storage space! | TOI Auto
"The German Chancellor had a first-hand experience of swapping a battery in electric vehicles in India. He along with a high-level German delegation took a tour of the company's development centre to understand how India is working with high-end advanced technologies to provide affordable mass mobility solutions to lead the transition that is electric, clean, and green," it further said.
#58
India on Monday formally launched day-ahead trading of electricity from renewable sources in a move towards mainstreaming of green energy as the country eyes a record 450 GW (gigawatts) of renewable energy capacity by 2030.
GDAM, or green energy day-ahead market, will unlock the market potential of green energy by giving project promoters more than one outlet for their output and could ultimately free them from rigid power purchase agreements (PPAs).
In that sense, GDAM is well-timed as solar tariffs, according to CRISIL Ratings, are expected to rise to Rs 2.60-2.70 per unit from an all-time low of Rs 2 over the next fiscal due to increased GST on renewable energy equipment and proposed customs duty on solar modules. This could prompt utilities renegade on offtake obligations under PPAs, in which case GDAM will come to the rescue of power producers.
For utilities and industries, GDAM will be an alternative source of cheaper power - which would benefit consumers - and a means to redeem their renewable purchase obligation. For industries with captive renewable capacity, GDAM will additionally provide an easy, transparent outlet for surplus generation.
"We are opening the doors for renewable energy. GDAM will hasten energy transition and pave the way for a resilient and future-ready power sector (in India)," power and renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Singh said after launching GDAM on the energy exchange.
GDAM will keep the market in tune as the dynamics changes with energy transition gathers pace as buyer preference shifts from long-term to short-term contracts and the energy exchanges.
It will operate in an integrated way with the conventional day-ahead market. The exchanges will offer market participants the option to submit bids for conventional and renewable energy together through separate bidding windows. The clearance will take place in a sequence, with renewable bids being cleared first in accordance with their 'must-run' status followed by the conventional power segment.
This mechanism will allow renewable energy sellers to subsequently bid in the conventional segment should their bids remain uncleared in the green market. There will be separate price discoveries for both the conventional and renewables.
Singh said open access will be granted within 15 days and inter-state transmission of renewable power will be free for 15 years as per norms.
#59

Dubai's Water and Electricity Authority, known as DEWA, began trading for the first time on Tuesday, after raising just over USD 6 billion during its initial public offering, making it the second largest offering ever in the Middle East.
While that figure still trails far below the record USD 29.4 billion raised by Saudi oil giant Aramco, it marks an inflection point for Dubai at a time when high oil prices are buoying the economies and spending power of energy-producing Gulf Arab states.

The government-owned utility opened trading on Dubai's stock exchange with a market cap of 124 billion dirhams, or what is roughly USD 33.7 billion. DEWA priced its shares at 2.48 dirhams each, or what is 68 cents a share. It traded, as expected, higher in its market debut, closing 16 per cent up at 2.87 dirhams a share.
The company plans to pay dividends twice a year to investors.
The listing comes as DEWA, which is the exclusive electricity and water utility provider of Dubai, positions itself as central to the wider United Arab Emirates' energy transition to net zero by 2050.
Dubai is an energy-intensive city of skyscrapers and an endless stream of high-end hotels and sprawling malls - including one with an indoor ski slope and another with an indoor ice skating rink - that require air-conditioning year-round to keep the Persian Gulf's heat and humidity out. The emirate, like other parts of the Gulf, also relies nearly entirely on desalinated water plants for potable water.
DEWA said it expects to supply all of Dubai's desalinated water capacity by 2030 using clean energy and waste heat. The money raised from the public sale of shares in DEWA could help offset some of the costs of the emirate's energy transition.
DEWA owns 70 per cent of cooling services provider Empower, as well as bottled water manufacturer Mai Dubai, among other companies.
DEWA says it is ready to meet even greater increased demand for electricity and water in Dubai with the government aiming to grow the population of mostly foreigners and expatriates from around 3.5 million people to 5.8 million people by 2040.
Emirati nationals, who make up a fraction of the country's overall population, receive generous electricity and water subsidies, paying a sliver of what foreign residents pay in monthly DEWA bills.
The government initially said it would go public with 6.5 per cent of the company, but raised that to 18 per cent on the back of local and international investor demand.
The listing is part of a wider plan announced last November by Sheikh Maktoum bin Mohammed Al Maktoum, the son of Dubai's ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, to list 10 state industries on the stock market to boost its profile and raise new capital for the emirate.
Also on Tuesday, Dubai Investments, another company listed on the Dubai stock market, said it was selling a 50 per cent stake in its district cooling subsidiary Emicool to London-based investment firm Actis for USD 1 billion.
Emicool provides cooling services to a number of areas across Dubai, including its metro stations, Damac Hills and Dubai Motor and Sports cities.
In a shared statement by the companies, they said the sale is aimed at supporting Emicool in its vision towards becoming a leading provider of sustainable and efficient cooling services in the region. 
#60
GURUGRAM, India, Nov. 22, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Vaishali Nigam Sinha, Chief Sustainability Officer, ReNew Power featured in Insider's prestigious T100 list that profiles 100 business leaders across 10 distinct sectors globally. The list includes leaders across the globe, who are transforming business with their groundbreaking ideas and impactful contributions.
Vaishali is one of the only two Asians named in the list that features a host of prominent global leaders including Mr. Yvon Chouinard, Founder, Patagonia, Gary Gensler, Chairperson, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Mr Ali Zaidi, National Climate Advisor, White House among others. As an ESG leader working on issues that are at the helm of the global energy paradigm, Vaishali believes 'the boundaries for climate change, for the global energy transition, are melting'. "As we look around us, there are humongous opportunities for us to be able to produce energy and make it fungible from one geography to the other. And we see ourselves taking the lead there," she told Insider in an interview. As a member of the founding team of ReNew Power (a leading Indian renewable energy company and 11th largest RE firm globally), Vaishali is working towards achieving the global SDG and net zero goals through a myriad of initiatives that include leading ESG initiatives within the company and through strategic partnerships across businesses pan-India and globally. Vaishali is also the Founder and Chair of ReNew Foundation, the philanthropic arm of ReNew Power that works towards creating sustainable communities through access to clean energy, including a host of initiatives aimed at a just and fair transition. ReNew Foundation also aims to scale up its efforts in the areas of climate action, and particularly, energy transition as the latter pertains to challenges in the global south. In terms of operations, ReNew Power, with more than 7.5 GW capacity powers up 4 million homes across India, employing more than 130,000 people directly and indirectly and mitigating 0.5% of India's carbon emissions. The Insider T100 list underscores the achievements of leaders such as Vaishali, who have overcome a myriad of issues this year including climate change, geo-political tensions, and inflation along with supply chain issues thereby making a real difference on the ground. above press release comes to you under an arrangement with 
#61
Emphasising India's significant progress in green shipping and energy transition, Union minister Pralhad Joshi said India stands as a global voice in its commitment to the pursuit of a sustainable energy future that aligns with growth ambitions and environmental responsibilities.
Addressing the Hamburg Sustainability Conference in Germany on Monday, Joshi said, "India has achieved significant milestones in its shift to renewable energy.
It is the only G20 country to have met its climate targets ahead of schedule, despite having the lowest per capita emissions among G20 nations."
He emphasised that energy security and access remain paramount for India, but this has not hindered the commitment to energy transition on both national and global scales.
"India has witnessed a transformative increase in its renewable energy capacity since 2014, with a 175% rise from 75GW to over 208 GW now. Total RE increased from 193.5 billion units to 360 BU, marking an 86% rise during this period. Solar energy capacity has also grown 33 times in the last 10 years," the Union minister of new and renewable energy said.
"The International Solar Alliance, supported by over 100 countries, demonstrates India's leadership in global efforts to combat climate change through solar energy," he added.
On the theme of green shipping, Joshi underscored the crucial role of the maritime sector in global trade and its impact on greenhouse gas emissions. "As we progress towards achieving net-zero emissions, the necessity for sustainable maritime transport has become very important. India is making significant strides in the green shipping sector, driven by govt initiatives, technological advancements, and international collaborations," he added.

The minister dwelt at length on how Indian shipyards are being modernised and older dockyards are being evaluated for reopening to expand green shipbuilding capacity. He cited the strong emphasis on alternative fuels and renewable energy sources like biofuels and wind power. India is upgrading its port infrastructure to support green shipping fuels and vessels using hybrid models, with the goal of ranking among the top five shipbuilding nations by 2047.
The National Green Hydrogen Mission (NGHM), launched with an outlay of $2.4 billion, aims to produce 5 million metric tonnes (MMT) of green hydrogen annually by 2030, attracting over $100 billion in investments and creating more than six lakh jobs. He also invited international stakeholders to collaborate in India's ambitious green hydrogen and renewable energy projects.
Pilot projects under the NGHM, with an investment of $14 million, are already exploring the use of green hydrogen in the shipping sector. "We are focusing on converting existing vessels to operate on green hydrogen or its derivatives. The Shipping Corporation of India is currently converting two vessels to run on green methanol," the minister explained. With an investment of approximately $25 million, India is setting the stage for development of hydrogen hubs that will transform its energy landscape.
#62
Canadian asset management firm Brookfield acquired a majority controlling stake in Tamil Nadu-based renewable energy platform Leap Green Energy.
Brookfield has made an upfront commitment to make an investment of about $200 million through a combination of subscription of new shares and acquisition of shares from existing investors. It plans incremental equity infusion of up to $350 million, the company said in a release.
"Brookfield shall work alongside the company's existing shareholders to enhance tits capabilities and grow the platform to in excess of 3 GW over the next four to five years," the release said.
The investment will be made through the Brookfield Global Transition Fund I (BGTF I).
Tamil Nadu has a total addressable, growing renewable commercial and industrial market of 20 GW and is a key target market for Leap Green, Brookfield said.
Nawal Saini, managing director and head of renewable power and transition, South Asia and the Middle East at Brookfield, said, "Our partnership provides an important opportunity to meet the demand in the C&I segment and deliver outcomes where decarbonization and value creation are in total alignment. We remain committed to helping corporates in reducing their carbon footprint and positively impacting the environment."

With the partnership with Brookfield, Leap Green plans to scale up as a multibillion dollar renewable and energy transition platform while retaining a focus on our home market of Tamil Nadu, founders Rajeev Karthikeyan and Dev Anand Vijayan were quoted as saying.
Leap Green Energy provides green energy to the commercial and industrial segment in the country. It has an existing wind and solar asset base of 775 MW, which includes operational and under construction assets. The company works in wind/solar power forecasting and are currently extending their services in Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and a few more states, according to a company.
#63
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a strong pitch for low-cost financing and global collaboration on transnational green grids as well as "fuels for future" to ensure "sustainable, just, affordable and inclusive" energy transition.
"We must ensure low-cost finance for developing countries. We must find ways to breach technology gaps, promote energy security and work on diversified supply chains," Modi said in his video address to G20 energy ministers in Goa, giving voice to the global south.
The PM also called for a diversified supply chain and the need for plugging technology gaps in climate action.
Though he did not mention any country, diversification of supply chain is being seen as a reference to concerns, shared by the West, over China's control over sourcing and processing of lithium, an essential ingredient of energy transition because of its application in making batteries.
Modi underlined India's pole position in climate action by listing the achievements regarding access to clean fuel and energy as well as advances in electric mobility to set the stage for inviting participation in the green grid initiative.
"We (India) are moving strongly on our climate commitments. India has shown leadership in climate action. We achieved our non-fossil installed capacity target nine years in advance. We have now set a higher target and plan to achieve 50% non-fossil installed capacity by 2030," he said.
Noting that interconnected green grids can be "transforming", the PM said India is promoting this "mutually beneficial" cooperation with its neighbours. "It will enable us to meet our climate goals, stimulate green investment and create millions of green jobs," he said, adding transnational grid inter-connections can enhance energy security and India is promoting this "mutually beneficial" cooperation with its neighbours - a reference to existing inter-connects with grids of Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh as well as efforts to establish linkages with southeast Asia.
In the backdrop of India's bid to become a global hub for green hydrogen, PM Modi sought greater collaboration on the "fuels for the future" and welcomed the high-level "principles on hydrogen" as a step in the right direction. This is likely to smoothen out divergence of views that emerged during G20 discussions on green hydrogen.
#64
Odisha is the second highest emitter of greenhouse gases (GHG)s in the country after Chhattisgarh, accounting for 9.7% of India's GHG emissions, according to a report released on Tuesday by an environmental research and innovation organisation, which was commissioned by the state govt.
The report, 'Just Transition in Odisha for Green Growth and Green Jobs', released by International Forum for Environment, Sustainability and Technology (iFOREST), stated that Odisha's per capita emission of 6.9 tonnes is more than double the country's average of 2.8 tonnes. It further said that coal-based power plants and steel industries contribute to 84% of Odisha's total emissions. The report recommended the state govt to take a series of steps and policy initiatives to adopt green and renewable energy.
State's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions increased at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of slightly over 5.6% over the last decade. As per 2022-2023 estimates, the state's GHG emission is 305.2 million metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent (MMT CO2e), which is about 9.7% of India's figure, the report said.
"The report for the first time assesses the opportunities in Odisha to shift to a low-carbon economy while boosting economic growth and jobs. It also highlights key policies and targets the state govt can implement in the next 10 years," said Chandra Bhushan, president and CEO of iFOREST. "The state needs to develop a comprehensive 'just transition' policy, which can guide green investments in fossil fuel-dependent districts, strengthen the ecosystem for skilling and jobs, and mobilise finances," he added.

The report highlighted seven top mining and industrial districts that are the transition hotspots - Angul, Dhenkanal, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh, Sambalpur and Keonjhar. These districts together account for 100% of coal production and a majority of coal-based power capacity and steel production.
Apart from sectoral initiatives and transitions, the report recommended developing regional 'just transition' plans for Angul-Dhenkanal and Jharsuguda-Sundargarh-Sambalpur mining and industrial clusters. It also sought streamlining of policies and procedures to meet the 11 GW renewable energy target by 2030 and enforce renewable purchase obligations (RPOs) target of 43.33% by 2030 for captive power plants.

It suggested the state govt to mandate the establishment of greenfield 'hydrogen-ready steel plants' from 2025 onwards and set green steel targets of 25% by 2035. "The state can scale up renewable energy developments by utilising mining and industrial wasteland. To strengthen the skilling ecosystem to develop a skilled workforce in four areas like green energy, green metals and mining, green manufacturing and green construction and infrastructure," the report said.
Deputy chief minister K V Singh Deo said, "We have to be progressive. We will move with the times, with the thought process of our honourable Prime Minister, and meet our net zero targets. We must move towards a greener, more sustainable Odisha with caution to protect our resources for future generations and ensure sustainable growth."
Principal secretary of energy department, Hemant Sharma, said the foundation of a low-carbon economy in Odisha rests on three pillars - renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainable industrial practices. "Energy transition is imminent. It is a necessity and an imperative. If it doesn't happen, this civilisation will not survive. Justice must be in-built. And the transition needs to be done in a planned manner. I can assure you the Odisha govt is committed to a 'just transition'. That's why we commissioned this study to iFOREST," Sharma said.
#65
In the race to combat climate change, India is emerging as a dark horse contender to become a global green energy powerhouse. With ambitious targets, innovative technologies, and a diverse energy portfolio, the world's most populous country is positioning itself at the forefront of the renewable energy revolution.As nations worldwide grapple with the urgent need to transition away from fossil fuels, India's multifaceted approach to green energy development is garnering attention."India has set an ambitious net zero goal to achieve by 2070," says Sanjukta Subudhi, associate director of microbial biofuels and biochemicals at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). As Sanjukta puts it, all forms of green energy molecules solar, bio-based, hydrothermal, and other biomolecules are seen to play a key role in achieving this net zero goal.One of the cornerstones of India's green energy strategy is its push for biofuels, an energy source that gets far too little attention. The country has rolled out several programs, including the ethanol blending program and the SATAT (Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation) scheme, aimed at increasing the production and use of biofuels.

Sanjukta says India has set a target of achieving 20% ethanol blending in petrol by 2030, which will cut down our dependence on costly and polluting fossil fuels.
The development of biofuels in India goes beyond just ethanol. Researchers are exploring various sources of biomass, including agricultural waste, forest residues, and even coconut fibre, to produce a range of biofuels and valuable byproducts.Sanjay Kumar Kar, professor at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology, says this diversified approach is the only way a country as large as India can effectively utilise its natural resources to cut oil imports.
While biofuels represent a significant portion of India's green energy portfolio, solar and wind power are leading the charge in terms of installed capacity. According to Bragadesh Damodaran, VP and energy transition & utilities industry platform leader at Capgemini India, the country's installed renewable energy capacity has surpassed 180 gigawatts as of 2024."India has set an ambitious target of achieving 500 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity by 2030, including 280 gigawatts from solar and 140 gigawatts from wind," Bragadesh said. This massive expansion plan in renewable energy infrastructure is attracting substantial investments from both domestic and international sources.Green Hydrogen: the next frontierPerhaps the most exciting development in India's green energy landscape is its foray into green hydrogen production. The National Green Hydrogen Mission aims to pro duce at least 5 million metric tons of green hydrogen annually by 2030, with the potential to double that figure.
"By 2030, India will emerge as the world's largest producer and exporter of green hydrogen, revolutionising global energy markets and positioning itself as a central hub in the global transition to a low-carbon economy," says Bragadesh.However, Sanjay also points out the challenges, particularly the troubling water-energy nexus. "We require clean water for production of hydrogen, and that is a scarce resource in most parts of this country."To address this issue, researchers are exploring a range of solutions, such as producing hydrogen from saline water. This could be a game-changer for coastal refineries that lack access to fresh-water resources. 
#66
Governor R N Ravi has said that India's experiences and successes will help the world find solutions for many global challenges, especially to save the earth from carbon emission and other economic issues. He was addressing a seminar on 'G20 New Delhi Leadership Declaration and Emerging World Order - India's Cutting-edge Energy Technologies on Clean Energy' organised at Alagappa University in Karaikudi in Sivaganga district on Friday.

Presiding over the inaugural function, Ravi highlighted the relevance of the theme "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam" adopted at the New Delhi summit and how it underscored India's cherished faith in the dictum that 'We Are One Earth, One Family, and We Share One Future'. sThe declaration will significantly influence the entire world, he said while lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for India's G20 agenda as 'inclusive, ambitious, action-oriented, and decisive.'
The governor said that India is looked upon as a leader, which is a defining moment in history. The challenges the world encounters today impact not only the global economy but also the lives and livelihoods of millions, particularly the most vulnerable. Our commitment is to pursue development models for building a global system that better empowers nations to tackle the challenges we face and foster prosperity and well-being for all, he said. The governor said that India is emerging as a global leader in renewable energy. It stands in the front in terms of installed wind energy capacity and solar installed capacity.
The governor appreciated Alagappa University for its research endeavours for the production of hydrogen energy. Vice-chancellor Prof. G Ravi in his welcome address said Alagappa University has 17KW of solar panels and efforts are on to construct a 650KW solar power plant on a 4-acre stretch at an investment of Rs 6.5 crore.
The plant will be maintained by the university's department of energy science to provide hands-on learning experience to students. The university is also taking up several research initiatives in Green Hydrogen Production and is currently working on a consortium project from DST-ICMAP along with nine other important national institutions to produce green hydrogen.
Prof M Krishnan, vice-chancellor, Central University of Tiruvarur, and Prof M Selvam, vice-chancellor, Bharathidasan University, Trichy, offered felicitattions.
Raju Mankar takes charge as first vice-chancellor of LITU
Prof Raju Mankar has assumed the role of the first vice-chancellor of Laxminarayan Innovation Technological University (LITU). The LIT Alumni Association warmly greeted him, and together with faculty members and LITAA members, paid tribute to the founder of LIT, D Laxinarayan. Mankar, who joined LIT in 2005 as a director, previously served as the vice-chancellor of Loneres Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University and is also an alumnus of LIT.
South Asia embraces global energy transition for sustainable growth
South Asia is facing economic challenges and limited fiscal resources, but the World Bank highlights the potential of leveraging the global energy transition for growth in the region. The region has the opportunity to enhance productivity, stimulate investment, create jobs, and reduce air pollution by adopting energy-efficient technologies. Bangladesh's progress in green development, particularly in the garments sector, is cited as an example. The report recommends policies to safeguard workers in industries that may be affected by the energy transition. The conference "Toward Faster, Cleaner Growth" aims to discuss the opportunities and challenges of sustainable, green growth in South Asia.
Will Gaza jeopardise India's energy resilience?
India's heavy reliance on oil from the Middle East puts it at risk amid the Israel-Hamas conflict. While India has made progress in transitioning to renewable energy, it still imports 85% of its oil supply, with 60% coming from the Middle East. The conflict could disrupt oil production and impact global prices. Additionally, India's close alliance with Israel could strain its trade relationship with Arab nations and jeopardize oil imports. India's strategic petroleum reserve only covers 9.5 days of supply, highlighting the need for alternative import options.
#67

Blackstone and Vista Equity Partners are set to acquire Australian energy market software provider, Energy Exemplar, for over $1 billion. The deal reflects a growing reliance on simulation software by power utilities, grid operators, and renewable energy developers to optimize production capacity and maximize efficiencies. The two buyout firms will each hold a 50% stake, the sources said, requesting anonymity ahead of an official announcement expected later on Tuesday.
.
Blackstone and Vista Equity Partners have agreed to acquire Australia's Energy Exemplar, a provider of energy market software, for more than $1 billion, according to people familiar with the matter.
The deal represents a bet on energy transition, as power utilities, grid operators and renewable energy developers turn to simulation software to fine-tune use of production capacity and maximize efficiencies.
The two buyout firms will each hold a 50% stake, the sources said, requesting anonymity ahead of an official announcement expected later on Tuesday. Energy Exemplar's existing owner, private equity firm Riverside Company, will cash out, they added.
Vista, Blackstone, Riverside and Energy Exemplar declined to comment.
Energy Exemplar has grown at an annual compound rate of 30% since 2018 under Riverside's ownership, the sources said. The North Adelaide-based company provides software tools that are used by more than 500 companies in 79 countries to simulate and forecast the electric, water, gas and renewable energy markets.
Blackstone is investing in Energy Exemplar through its energy transition arm, which is in the process of raising a new fund. Dubbed Blackstone Energy Transition Partners IV, the fund had raised $2.2 billion towards its $5.6 billion target as of the end of August, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The New York-based buyout firm has been moving aggressively into this area, declaring last year that it saw an opportunity to deploy $100 billion in energy transition and climate change solutions projects over the next decade.
Its previous investments include Transmission Developers, solar mounting firm Esdec, environmental engineering firm Geosyntec, environmental commodity exchange Xpansiv, and renewable energy firm Invenergy. Blackstone also said in August it had raised the largest credit fund in the world dedicated to energy transition, amassing $7.1 billion.
Vista, a software sector specialist, is participating in the deal through its middle-market Foundation strategy. The firm raised its fourth Foundation fund in 2020, amassing $4.5 billion, and is expected to raise a new one in the coming months.
#68
Ahead of the G20 summit, a latest report comparing performance of five major economies has stated that India can become a showcase of successful net-zero development with additional financial investments.
According to the report 'Competing in the new zero-carbon industrial era' released by think tank Strategic Perspectives, India is making progress in incorporating solar and wind into its electricity generation, almost doubling its share from 2017 figures (5% to 9%).
Comparing performance of the United States (US), China, the European Union (EU), India and Japan, the study found that net-zero transition policies have significantly strengthened competitiveness, energy security and future economic prosperity.
India has also performed well when it come to electric vehicle industry. While electric two-wheelers are expected to play a big part in the global EV market, India already had a fleet of 4 million EV two-wheelers in 2022, which is projected to rise to 6 million by 2024.
Highlighting another positive development, the report stated that India was among the few countries on track to meet its (NDC) target. "However, it will need to invest $12.7 trillion to reach net zero emission by 2050. The country remains one of the fastest growing major economies, especially as China's post-pandemic recovery has slowed and India has become the fifth largest economy in the world," the study added.
This G20, India is likely to push for the global green development agreement, which will include climate finance apart from the Lifestyle for Environment (LIFE) initiative, circular economy, accelerating progress on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), energy transitions and energy security.
Experts said that the country has significant potential to grow its importance in the global new industrial transition where it must scale up investments in R&D, and not solely rely on tech transfer and Chinese imports.
Stating that India, with its G20 presidency, holds responsibility to lead the growth in energy transition, director of Climate Trends Aarti Khosla said, "The significant progress in India towards green goals shows commitment to scaling up renewable energy, implementation across several state EV policies, and wins in energy efficiency. As a country which will witness massive industrial growth over the next few decades, it must focus on innovation, research and development, as well as creating an enabling environment that draws in faster investments whilst reducing dependence on China. Breaking down the sectors where clean technology can be game changing and ensuring upskilling of the systems and workforce is what will ensure real energy transition."
The country is looking at massive requirements of deployment of renewable energy for decarbonisation of not just the power sector, said Vibhuti Garg, director (South Asia), the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA).
"The government has big plans for adding electric vehicles and also promoting green hydrogen as a clean energy solution for transport and other industries. Traditionally, India has been relying on imports of fossil fuels and now with a renewable energy growth story, relying on imports for downstream supply chains. The focus is shifting and we as a country are building a big base for domestic manufacturing of modules, cells, wafers, battery storage, electrolysers etc. and further looking at exploration and mining of critical minerals. India would need access to the best in technology for building the supply chain to improve efficiency of the products and more importantly access to low cost financing. The investments need to more than triple from the current levels if we have to achieve our 2030 targets."


#69
Andrew Forrest, chairman of Fortescue, has emphasized the urgency of addressing climate change during his tour of India. He spoke at various institutions and met with Indian policymakers and business leaders to discuss the transition to sustainable practices. Forrest believes that green energy is not just an option but a necessity, and that collaboration and innovation are key in achieving this transition. He also mentioned that individuals and institutions can play a crucial role in driving positive change.
 Climate change is already here, philanthropist Dr Andrew Forrest, Chairman of Fortescue, has said, sounding the alarm on the urgency of resolving climate issues. During his current tour of India, Dr Forrest addressed institutions including IIT New Delhi, IIT Bombay, and IIT Madras. He also met with key Indian policymakers and business leaders at The Energy Transition Dialogue in New Delhi.
"We are at a tipping point in the fight against climate change.
Green energy isn't just an option; it's our lifeline. We must invest, innovate, and collaborate globally to transition to sustainable practices," said Dr Forrest.
"Each institution, each individual, can be a driving force for positive change to make big business take action. Together, we can make a difference. It is not the fault of individuals that climate change is here, it is big business and I believe the innovations and intelligent minds of India can help us define a better future," he said.
Dr. Forrest has also spoken at universities including Harvard University, MIT, Berkley, and UCLA in the United States, Oxford University and Cambridge University in the United Kingdom, and Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands.
Fortescue, an integrated green technology, energy and metals company, is delivering green solutions in metals, fuels, and transport to help decarbonize, driving innovation in the green energy sector.
#70
India, the world's fifth largest economy, can achieve energy independence through clean technology by 2047, a report of top research institute said, highlighting Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Atmanirbhar Bharat push that spans from a massive renewable capacity addition to electric mobility, saving billions of dollars in imports. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, a federally funded research and development centre, along with The India Energy and Climate Center (IECC) located at UC Berkeley's Goldman School of Public Policy published a report, 'Pathways to Atmanirbhar Bharat', that highlights the steps taken by India towards the adoption of clean energy.India is 80-85 per cent dependent on imports to meet its oil and coal needs. The price and supply volatility in global energy markets, as witnessed in recent years, strain India's foreign exchange reserves, resulting in economy-wide inflation.However, recent dramatic declines in clean energy costs provide India an opportunity to lower energy imports through investment in renewable energy, battery storage, EVs, and green hydrogen, the report said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already set a target to install 500 GW (gigawatt) of renewable energy capacity by 2030. The government intends to grow EV sales in India to capture the markets of 30 per cent of private cars, 70 per cent of commercial vehicles and 80 per cent of two- and three-wheelers by 2030. Also, it is targeting production of 5 million tonnes of green hydrogen by splitting water using electricity from renewable sources.
Abundant solar energy and local technology will aid this and also reduce carbon emissions. All this towards a Atmanirbhar Bharat or a self-reliant India that does have to depend on imports for meeting its energy needs.Energy independence, the report said, involves investment in renewables, electric vehicles, and green hydrogen -- generating electricity from solar and wind energy -- and will help move away from coal-based generation while use of electricity-charged batteries till cutting dependence on liquid fuel like petrol and diesel. Zero-carbon hydrogen will decarbonise Indian industry, cutting emissions and lowering dependence on imported fuel."This would involve installing more than 500 GW of non-fossil electricity generation capacity by 2030, an 80 per cent clean grid by 2040 and 90 per cent by 2047," it said. "Nearly 100 per cent of new vehicle sales could be electric by 2035. Heavy industrial production shifts primarily to green hydrogen and electrification: 90 per cent of iron and steel, 90 per cent of cement, and 100 per cent of fertilizers by 2047."And this could help "India achieve energy independence through clean technology by 2047," the report said.The transition to electric vehicles could save crude oil imports by over 90 per cent (or USD 240 billion) by 2047, while green hydrogen based and electrified industrial production would reduce industrial coal imports by 95 per cent. Lithium needed for manufacturing new electric vehicles and grid-scale battery storage systems (around 2 million tonnes cumulative between 2023 and 2040) could be produced domestically using newly discovered reserves."Energy independence is economically advantageous," it said. "Clean energy will reduce and inflation proof India's energy expenditure as renewables, EV batteries, and hydrogen infrastructure are capital assets with rapidly falling costs. A shift to electric transportation will create USD 2.5 trillion in net consumer savings by 2047."Indian industry, to remain globally competitive, must also transition to clean technologies like green steel manufacturing, as major export markets (ex. EU) make carbon neutrality commitments, the report said, adding the clean energy transition would have minimal impacts on tax revenues.Fossil fuel taxes, duties, and royalties contribute about 12 per cent of state and central government revenue.Despite an aggressive clean energy transition, fossil fuel consumption and associated tax revenues will not drop below 2020 levels until the mid-2030s, it said.The study said a rapid expansion of clean energy infrastructure will be needed. "Because of transport, industrial electrification and green hydrogen production, electricity demand could increase nearly five-fold - from 1,300 TWh/year to over 6,600 TWh/year by 2050. This would require a massive scale-up of renewable energy deployment to 40 GW a year through 2030, ramping up to about 100 GW a year between 2030 and 2050."Clean energy deployment will be more capital-intensive, needing a net additional investment of USD 1.5-2 trillion between 2023-2047, compared with business-as-usual."Achieving energy independence could offer environmental and public health benefits without compromising economic growth. With an aggressive clean energy transition, over 4 million air pollution-related premature deaths could be avoided between 2023-2047. India's CO2 emissions will peak in the early 2030s, before dropping to 800 million tonnes per year by 2047 (85-90 per cent of the way to net-zero emissions)."Managing the clean energy transition would require significant policy support. The policy ecosystem needs to have five pillars: deployment mandates for commercial / cost-effective clean technologies that provide the economies of scale, financial support for emerging technologies, long-term infrastructure planning, accelerating/scaling domestic manufacturing, and planning for a just transition," it added.
#71
The debt-laden Rajasthan Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd (RVUNL) has decided to set up solar energy plants of 800 MW capacity and invest about Rs 3,200 crore despite the trend of discoms of other states and power procuring entities preferring the third party route through competitive bidding that has brought down costs of the renewable energy to about Rs 2 a unit.
The debt-laden Rajasthan Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd (RVUNL) has decided to set up solar energy plants of 800 MW capacity and invest about Rs 3,200 crore despite the trend of discoms of other states and power procuring entities preferring the third party route through competitive bidding that has brought down costs of the renewable energy to about Rs 2 a unit.
Financially, RVUNL is also not in a position to contribute a share of 30% equity in the project even if it mobilises loans from banks. The Nigam already owes lenders about Rs 24,000 crore and the interest it would pay won't come cheaper given the credit profile.
Experts in the power sector said instead of investing such a huge amount, RVUNL would be better to get the cheaper solar power through a developer in RESCO (renewable energy service company) mode and blend it with thermal power which would avoid the huge loan burden.
Andhra Pradesh is working on a strategy to supply cheaper power to farmers by setting up of 10 GW solar energy plants through private investors instead of itself making the heavy investment. The private developers will be selected through competitive bidding and power will be purchased by the government at much lower rates to reduce their subsidy burden without any investment.
Rajasthan has highest installed solar energy capacity of 7737.95MW in the country. Maximum capacity of it has been installed by developers or investors and the generated power is being exported to various discoms and power procuring entities including SECI, NTPC, Maharashtra, Haryana, and UP among others. The power is purchased by these agencies at cheaper rates without making heavy investments unlike RVUNL's proposed 800MW projects.
Simran Grover, CEO of Bask Research, said, "There is an opportunity for RVUN to drive Rajasthan's clean energy transition through solar and other low carbon technologies and storage. However, there is a word of caution. If such investments are allowed through the cost-plus or regulated tariff regime, it shall be counter-productive for the sector, the state, and the electricity consumers."
He said the RVUN should participate in a free and fair competitive market to avoid unnecessary inefficiencies in the journey of clean energy transition.
In a cost-plus pricing mechanism, the seller calculates all costs, fixed and variable, incurred in producing power and then applies a markup percentage to these costs to estimate the asking price. In this model, the power generator's inefficiencies are passed on as a cost where as in a competitive bidding and third party mechanism, the cost is much cheaper. In recent biddings, the prices for solar energy has come down to Rs 2 a unit, which is expected to be much higher in case of a cost-plus approach.
Earlier, heavy investment were made by RVUNL for setting up of Giral lignite plant, Ramgarh gas plant and Dholpur gas plant. But they are not utilized properly and investment made by RVUNL is becoming bad debt. All these imprudent financial decisions have added to the high cost of power that people in Rajasthan are paying.
Model of developing infrastructure projects by government organizations is not cost effective unlike private investors. Most of the highways projects, airports, and urban infrastructure projects are developed by private investors or through PPP model for efficiency.
#72
The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras' energy consortium and Shell India have partnered to launch 'Shell IITM Centre for Energy Research' (SICER), for research and development in the energy sector.
According to a release from the institute, the centre collaborates in bringing solutions for energy transition, incubation of energy startups by tapping industry-academia expertise.
It will promote innovation, research, development, piloting and commercialization of technologies in the energy sector, it said.
The partnership also entails instituting the Shell Chair Professorship, which will enable knowledge exchange between Shell and IIT Madras, along with the continuation of Shell's participation in the Energy Consortium. As part of the initiative, Dr Satyanarayanan Seshadri, IITM faculty and head of the energy consortium , was announced as Shell Chair Professor at IIT-Madras.
Dr Ajay Mehta, VP engineering technology at Shell, said, "This collaboration will further enable us to share our knowledge and resources with IIT-M while leveraging their expertise, R&D facilities, and innovation ecosystem to address one of the world's most critical challenges - the energy transition."
The Energy Consortium is a recognized Institute of Eminence Centre at IIT-Madras that covers a spectrum of research in energy generation, storage, conversion, and distribution, with industry-academia-government collaboration. The core expertise areas at the consortium include carbon capture and storage, gas hydrates, coal and biomass conversion to useful chemicals, renewable energy technologies, electrolyser technologies for CO2 conversion and green hydrogen generation, energy storage technologies beyond lithium, and distributed energy management including for AC and DC microgrids.
#73
Reliance Industries Ltd is looking at manufacturing renewable energy equipment in Australia under investments of A$20-30 billion (US$ 13.5-20 billion) planned by Brookfield Asset Management and its global investor partners GIC and Temasek to accelerate energy transition in that country.
Brookfield's MoU with Reliance envisages making investments in manufacturing PV modules, long duration battery storage and wind energy components for the Australian renewables market, de-risking that country's energy transition with a local supply chain.
Both will also work towards development of skills, knowledge and expertise in Australia's renewable energy sector, the companies said in a joint statement on Tuesday.
Brookfield's investment, to be spread over 10 years, is part of its acquisition of Origin EnergyMarkets, the marketing division of EIG entity's markets division. The MoU will lead to consistent and adequate supply of clean energy equipment for up to 14 gigawatts of large-scale generation and storage capacity in Australia.
The MoU intends to leverage Reliance's expertise in solar panel and long duration battery storage technology, acquired through a string of acquisitions in recent years for access to know-how and technology. It is setting up one of the world's largest integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities in India.
Brookfield Renewable is the flagship listed renewable power company of Brookfield Asset Management and operates one of the world's largest publicly traded, pure-play renewable power platforms.

"We want to help kickstart a new era in local manufacturing that will benefit domestic renewables developers and many communities around Australia. We are establishing these types of global partnerships in manufacturing now to allow us to get started as quickly as possible given the ever-reducing timeline for Australia to reach its first emissions-reductions targets in 2030," the statement quoted Brookfield Renewable's Australia head Luke Edwards as saying.
"At Reliance, we are firmly committed to the mission of creating a global clean energy ecosystem that is both beneficial to humanity and compatible with nature. Towards this end, Reliance is pursuing opportunities of investment in India and globally with enthusiasm and passion," the statement quoted Reliance New Energy director Anant Ambani as saying.
#74
Global investment firm KKR and Hero Group will invest USD 450 million (around Rs 3,588 crore) in Hero Future Energies, a statement said on Tuesday. Hero Future Energies is the renewable energy arm of the Hero Group.
The investment will position Hero Future Energies (HFE) for continued growth and support its efforts to expand its renewable energy capacity and capabilities across technologies such as solar, wind, battery storage, and green hydrogen, and into new markets over time, the statement said.
Through its range of solutions, HFE will also look to support companies in their efforts to decarbonize and transition towards sustainable energy sources to achieve their net zero emission goals.
Founded in 2012, Hero Future Energies is a leading independent power producer (IPP) in India with a diversified portfolio of 1.6 GW of operating solar and wind projects.
Hardik Shah, Partner at KKR, said, "We look forward to working closely with HFE's management team and existing investors, including the Hero Group and IFC, to help HFE achieve its next phase of growth and contribute to the energy transition efforts in India and globally."
KKR makes its investment from its Asia Pacific Infrastructure Fund.
Rahul Munjal, Chairman & Managing Director of Hero Future Energies, said in the statement, "With this investment, HFE will work to accelerate India's energy transition."
Since 2011, KKR has deployed over USD 15 billion in equity globally to invest in renewable assets, such as solar and wind, which have an operational power generation capacity of 23 GW, as of December 31, 2021. PTI KKS MR
#75
The world's largest and first of its kind single location, co-located renewable energy storage project being set up by Greenko Group got off the ground at Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday with the first concrete pour by AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy.
The 5230MW renewable energy generation project with a pumped storage capacity of 10,800MWh per day (six hours per day of hydel power pumping and storage) is coming up at an investment of $3 billion by 2023.
This includes $1 billion investment in just the storage capacity and the remaining $2 billion in setting up 3000MW of solar power generation, 550 MW of wind energy generation and 1680MW of hydel power generation capacity, Mahesh Kolli, founder & joint managing director, Greenko Group.
Kolli said the project will play a key role in helping India achieve energy security and enabling global energy transition. It will not just cater to industry, where it has signed contracts with Arcelor Mittal for supply to its Gujarat facility, but also states like Bihar, Rajasthan and West Bengal (Damodar Valley Corporation). The storage project will also be used to produce green hydrogen.
The project is slated to help avoid 15 million tonnes of CO2 annually, which is equivalent to emissions from 3 million cars.
The renewable energy storage capacity of 10,800 MWh will be able to integrate up to 6GW of wind and solar capacities. This means the project will have the capacity to integrate another 2,500MW of solar and wind generation capacities in addition to the total 3550MW of wind and solar capacities planned currently.

Speaking on the occasion, AP CM said history was being created by AP with this project. "What Andhra Pradesh is showcasing (with the project) will be a triggering point for the entire country to follow in the days to come. The usage of fuel of fossil fuel would take a back seat and renewable energy front seat," Reddy said.
Greenko Group said the project is part of its plans to build an intelligent, low cost energy cloud storage platform of 50GWh capacity that is to be commissioned by 2025.
The Kurnool project is the first of the four energy storage projects that Greenko is planning in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan at a total investment of $5 billion by 2025. While the projects in Karnataka and MP will be similar to the one coming up in AP, the Rajasthan one will be the largest with a 17,000 MWh storage capacity.
Greenko further plans to expand its energy storage capacities to 100GWh, which involves setting up of another four projects that includes one in Telangana, by 2027 along with green hydrogen production systems of 10GW by 2030.
Greenko currently has an installed renewable energy capacity of around 7.5GW across wind, solar and hydro power in 15 states across the country and has another 10GW RE projects under development.
Greenko is majority owned by two of the largest global sovereign wealth funds - Government Investment Corporation (GIC) of Singapore and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) of UAE along with Orix Corporation of Japan
#76
AM Green BV (AMG) and Maharatna public sector giant GAIL (India) Limited have joined forces to explore the establishment of hybrid renewable energy projects (solar and wind) of up to 2.5GW across India. The partnership will also focus on the long-term supply of carbon dioxide (CO2) for hybrid renewable energy projects, as well as eMethanol production and exploration across India.
The two entities plan to conduct studies for the long-term supply of around 350 KTA (kilotonnes per annum) of CO2 generated by GAIL in its gas processing plants to produce eMethanol. This environmentally friendly fuel can reduce carbon emissions and promote a circular economy, AM Green stated on Friday.
GAIL will also have an equity option to invest in the proposed eMethanol project, ensuring a strategic partnership that supports both companies' objectives in promoting sustainable energy solutions, it added.
The hybrid renewable energy projects, combined with Greenko's upcoming pump storage projects, are poised to supply round-the-clock power to end users, including the proposed eMethanol project, the Hyderabad-based company said.
AM Green group president Mahesh Kolli stated that the partnership with GAIL on one of the world's largest carbon-free, renewable energy supply contracts demonstrates AMG's emerging leadership position as a global clean energy transition solutions platform. The production of green methanol will aid in the decarbonisation of hard-to-abate sectors like shipping, steel, and cement.
GAIL director for business development Rajeev Singhal said the development of renewable energy projects would support a reduction in India's carbon footprint and advance its transition to a greener energy landscape.
AM Green mentioned that its production of green ammonia across multiple locations in India will accelerate its target to achieve 5 MTPA of green ammonia capacity by 2030. This is equivalent to about 1 MTPA of green hydrogen and represents a fifth of India's target for green hydrogen production under the National Green Hydrogen Mission and 10% of Europe's target for green hydrogen imports by 2030. MSID:: 113943198 413 |
#77
At a time when talks about coal phasedown and achieving net-zero by 2070 is dominating the climate change dialogues across the globe, Jharkhand is preparing for coal usage and its phasedown simultaneously, accepting the fact that adopting sustainable transition methodology is a must.Talking to TOI on the sidelines of a two-day international conference "Sustainable Transition for Future-Ready Jharkhand: Global Perspectives & Learnings for Climate Resilient Growth', Jharkhand chief secretary L Khiangte said new coal mines are in the pipeline and there is no denying the fact that the state and country are highly dependent on coal as energy source. "Still there are mines that are being closed down and we have to plan an equitable sustainable transition so that the people engaged with the trade are not affected," he said.

The international conference organised by the Task Force on Sustainable Just Transition (govt of Jharkhand), with support from its technical partner, Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED), and in association with United Nations Development Program (UNDP-India) and World Resources Institute (WRI-India), aims at chalking out a pathway which is greener and all-encompassing.Further elucidating the objectives of the conference, chairperson of the state task force, AK Rastogi, said the initiative adopts a proactive, opportunity-driven lens to acknowledge Jharkhand's potential in realising climate-compatible growth, setting a precedent for transformative action worldwide.
The conference also witnessed the launching of the official website of the task force and participation of experts from multilateral organisations, hailing from about 30 nations, including influential voices from Japan, USA, Germany, South Africa, South Korea, Indonesia and so on.During the two days, experts from the govt and climate change will brainstorm over finding green mobility, green economy, training of manpower and preparing a blueprint for different nations to tread on the path of doing away with polluting energy sources and transitioning to cleaner fuel while ensuring that it has minimum socio-economic impact.We also published the following articles recently
'Energy transition is important, but not over affordability', says Minister Hardeep Singh Puri
Petroleum Minister Hardeep Singh Puri emphasized orderly energy transition in India, balancing access to traditional fuels with a shift towards cleaner energy. Leading Indian CEOs stressed diverse energy mix and public-private partnerships. The conference discussed the complexities of energy transition.
PM Modi's principal secretary speaks on the pathways for sustainable growth in uncertain world
Pramod Kumar Mishra, principal secretary to PM Modi, highlighted the challenges of export-led growth due to Covid and geopolitical tension. He emphasized the need to lower logistics cost, improve product quality, and address geopolitical uncertainty, technology-driven uncertainty, and environmental concerns for sustainable development.
Kerry: Trump can't stop green energy revolution, but China coal threat looms
US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry believes that renewable energy deployment will continue regardless of Donald Trump's re-election. However, there is a risk of reversing anti-coal diplomacy efforts. Kerry expressed concerns about potential negative global effects if US climate policy changes under a new administration.
#78
Electric vehicles infrastructure player RACE Energy has entered into a strategic partnership with sustainable energy transition materials producer LOHUM to tackle EV battery waste and identify second life use applications for its batteries.
RACE Energy co-founder Gautham Maheswaran said the partnership will enable the startup to extend the life of its swappable battery modules, which can be seamlessly transitioned into useful second-life applications.
Race Energy, Lohum join hands to tackle EV battery waste, identify second life use applications
Race Energy has announced a strategic partnership with Lohum to address EV battery waste and find second-life applications. Lohum, a sustainable energy transition materials producer, uses recycling and refining techniques to produce pure metallic Lithium. The collaboration will ensure that over 90% of raw materials from Race Energy's used batteries are recycled or refurbished, in line with Extended Producer Responsibility guidelines. The extracted materials will be used in Lithium-ion cell manufacturing, creating a circular economy for EV batteries in India. Race Energy recently established a battery manufacturing facility with a 50 MWh production plant.
OSM, Honda Power Pack Energy ink pact for battery swapping technology: Details
Omega Seiki Mobility has partnered with Honda Power Pack Energy India to introduce swappable battery technology for electric vehicles (EVs) in India. Under the agreement, Honda will supply Omega Seiki with swappable batteries and establish a network of interchange stations in key cities. The companies plan to implement the "e: Swap Technology" in over 10,000 vehicles within two years, reducing EV purchase costs and minimizing downtime for recharging. Omega Seiki's upcoming EV three-wheelers will also be equipped with swappable batteries. The partnership aims to accelerate EV adoption in the country.
Log9 Materials partners with Gamma Technologies for thermal engineering of battery cells
Indian battery startup Log9 Materials has partnered with Gamma Technologies to enhance the thermal engineering of its battery cells. Log9 Materials will use Gamma Technologies' GT-SUITE software, which enables system integration, analysis, and optimization through physics-based libraries. Log9 is focused on developing advanced Li-ion cells for electric vehicles in India and globally, and its RapidX series of batteries are designed to efficiently power electric vehicles in India and other emerging markets. Gamma Technologies' President and CEO, Dimple Shah, expressed enthusiasm for the partnership, stating that it would add value to Log9's innovation.
#79
AdEnergy Solutions Ltd (AESL) on Monday stated that it has completed SPV acquisition of Khavda Phase IV Part-A transmission project after receiving a letter of intent (LOI) from REC Power Development and Consultancy.
The company also added that the award of this project further strengthens AESL's position as a leader in India's energy transition and consolidates its position as the largest private sector transmission player in India.
Khavda IVA Power Transmission, a special purpose vehicle (SPV,) set up by RECPDCL for evacuating 7 GW of Renewable Energy (RE) from Khavda RE park, under Phase IV Part A package, has been acquired by AESL to execute the project.
The company added that the Khavda IVA transmission line, part of National Grid, will help evacuate 7 GW of RE by connecting 765 kV double circuit lines from Khavda to Lakadia and Khavda to Bhuj (both in Gujarat) and setting up transformation capacity of 4,500 MVA.
As per the statement by the company, Khavda, the world's largest renewable energy park, with a planned generation capacity of 30 GW, will immensely contribute to India's decarbonization journey.
The award of this project to AESL boosts the availability of critical transmission infrastructure required for evacuation of clean energy. The Adani Group's focused approach will also ensure the transformation of Khavda from a barren stretch of land into a landmark in India's net zero journey.
"As the world's largest renewable energy park, Khavda demands power evacuation infrastructure that is not only world-class but also resilient and future-ready, this investment will not only establish the critical transmission network required to evacuate the planned 30 GW of green power that Khavda will generate but also provide the much-needed grid stability. AESL is proud to be part of this initiative as this network will play a very important role in the seamless flow of green energy to the national grid, bolstering India's journey towards net zero" said Kandarp Patel, Chief Executive Officer, AESL.
The company won the project through the Tariff-Based Competitive Bidding (TBCB) process and will commission the project in the next 24 months on BOOT (Build, Own Operate, and Transfer) basis and maintain it for the next 35 years.
The company will invest approximately Rs 4,091 crore to build the approx. 298 km (596 ckm) transmission project. The project also includes setting up of 300 MVAr STATCOM and 3x1500 MVA, 765/400 kV Inter-connecting Transformer (ICTs) with 1x330 MVAr, 765 kV and 1x125 MVAr, 420 kV bus reactors.
#80
Gautam Adani, Chairman of Adani Group, announced Adani Group's $100 billion investment in energy transition projects and manufacturing for green energy generation, aiming to propel India towards a $10 trillion economy by 2032. The chairman was addressing an event titled 'Infrastructure - the Catalyst for India's Future' organized by Crisil.
Chairman of Adani Group, Gautam Adani on Wednesday announced its plans to invest over $100 billion in energy transition projects and manufacturing capabilities to produce key components necessary for green energy generation.The chairman was addressing an event titled 'Infrastructure - the Catalyst for India's Future' organized by Crisil. He stressed the immense potential of energy transition and digital infrastructure in transforming India on both local and global levels, describing them as trillion-dollar opportunities.Adani listed three aspects that will contribute to the nation's infrastructure development in the coming years, propelling the country towards its objective of achieving a $10 trillion economy by 2032.
* Governance: Role of government policies and governance
* Green energy: Future of infrastructure its interconnection with sustainability and renewability
* Infrastructure: Adani Group's focus and the role it is playing in developing national infrastructure
The conglomerate aims to establish solar parks, wind farms, and facilities for manufacturing electrolyzers, wind power turbines, and solar panels.Green hydrogen, produced by separating hydrogen from water using electrolyzers powered by renewable energy sources, is considered a potential solution for reducing carbon emissions in both the industrial and transportation sectors.Addressing the event Adani said, "While every nation has its challenges, I can confidently state that India's real growth is yet to come. The platform to create several trillion-dollar market spaces is already in place.
Our estimates show that by FY32- India is targeted to become a 10 trillion-dollar economy."According to Adani, the energy transition space will permanently alter the worldwide energy landscape. He also said that, "The global transition market was valued at approximately $3trillion in 2023 and is expected to grow to nearly $6 trillion by 2030, and thereafter double every 10 years till 2050.""At this time, I expect the stock market capitalisation to have exceeded $40 trillion. What this effectively means is that over the next 26 years, India will potentially add $36 trillion to its stock market capitalisation," he added.The Adani Group chairman said, "The next decade will see us invest more than $100 billion in the energy transition space and further expand our integrated renewable energy value chain that today already spans the manufacturing of every major component required for green energy generation.""And to make this happen, we are already building the world's largest single-site renewable energy park in Khavda, in the district of Kutch (in Gujarat). Just this single location will generate 30 GW of power, thereby taking our total renewable energy capacity to 50 GW by 2030," he added."As many of you know, in the case of India, our country aims to install 500 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity by 2030. This ambitious target will require annual investments of over $billion dollars. The transition to green energy in India is expected to generate millions of new jobs in sectors such as solar and wind, energy storage, hydrogen and its derivatives, EV charging stations, as well as grid infrastructure development," the chairman said.Adani on digital infrastructure said data centers as the critical infrastructure powering computational needs, particularly for AI workloads involving machine learning algorithms, natural language processing, computer vision, and deep learning. He highlighted that processing data at unprecedented speed and scale is crucial, and data centers provide these capabilities."In fact, it is anticipated that by the year 2030, the world will need 100 to 150 GW of additional green energy just for the AI data centres. We already have India's largest order book for data centres and are now in discussions for additional gigawatt-scale green AI data centres which we are uniquely positioned to deliver," he said.Adani pointed out that this will require massive amounts of energy, making the data center business the largest energy-consuming industry worldwide.The Adani Group also intends to establish Artificial Intelligence labs to capitalise on India's rapidly growing expertise in providing AI services to the global market.(With inputs from agencies)
#81
Essar Energy Transition appoints Ruth Herbert as managing director for business development and strategic initiatives. With 15 years of energy industry experience and a background in government policy, Herbert will drive new business opportunities and strategic partnerships for EET's low-carbon energy projects.
UK-focused Essar Energy Transition (EET) promoted by the Mumbai-based Ruia family, on Wednesday announced the appointment of Ruth Herbert as managing director in charge of business development and strategic initiatives, effective September 16.
A master of physics from the University of Oxford, Ruth holds professional qualifications in programme management and sustainable energy.
She brings with her over 15 years of experience in the energy industry wherein she helped shape government policy and fostered partnerships that significantly advanced the industry's progress.
She moves to EET from the UK's Carbon Capture Storage Association, where she is the chief executive. At EET, Ruth will be responsible for identifying new business opportunities, forging strategic partnerships and ensuring that the company's initiatives are in line with the evolving energy landscape.
Duirng her three-year tenure at the helm, CCSA grew from a 50-member body to a 120-member organisation, produced its first UK-wide CCUS delivery plan and grew its presence and profile in the UK and Belgium. Ruth also held several key positions at the UK's Department of Energy and Climate Change, where she played a pivotal role in the government's energy policy, including leading negotiations on the EU directive on CO2 storage, international CCUS, and policy coordination, stakeholder engagement and programme management for the UK's electricity market reform. She has also been a member of the UK government's CCUS Council and its Industrial Decarbonisation Challenge Advisory Council, as well as the UKCCSRC Advisory Council.
EET also listed among her prior experience the position of director of strategy and development at the Low Carbon Contracts Company, where she was responsible for shaping strategic direction, developing its business plans, managing government affairs and leading external communications.
"We are very excited to have Ruth on board at EET. Through our hydrogen production and decarbonisation projects at Stanlow, we are fully focused on assisting the UK Government to deliver its net zero goals. Ruth's strong track record of leadership in both decarbonisation policy and practical implementation regimes will be instrumental as we progress our strategic initiatives," an EET statement quoted managing director Tony Fountain as saying.
"EET's plans present a huge opportunity for the UK's North-West to be a trailblazer in the net zero industries of the future and for EET to be at the forefront of the emerging low carbon products market. I'm looking forward to working with the EET team to achieve its long-term objectives and make these ambitions a reality" the EET statement quoted Ruth as saying.
EET is creating the UK's leading energy transition hub in North-West England and developing $3 billion of projects across a range of low-carbon energy transition projects over the next five years.
#82
Chief minister Conrad K Sangma attended the 2nd Climate Investments and Technology Impact Summit at Meghalaya House, New Delhi on Thursday to prioritise innovative technological solutions and green investment approaches to address climate change and foster technological advancements for sustainable outcomes.
Conrad said Meghalaya is rich in diverse agro-climatic zones with the environment of the state offering significant potential not only for high-value tourism but also various agri-based industries.
"Meghalaya also receives significant annual rainfall that shapes our ecological landscape and agricultural practices. However, the abundance of rain also brings vulnerabilities related to climate change, necessitating a comprehensive understanding of these challenges and the development of effective mitigation strategies," he said.
He underscored that it is crucial to invest in sustainable and climate-resilient infrastructure and highlighted several programmes of the state like the Livelihoods and Access to Market Projects, community-led Landscape Management Project, community-based Forest Management and Livelihood Improvement and Protection of Vulnerable Catchment Areas under climate financing, aimed at tackling some of the climate related challenges.
He also spoke at length on the Green Meghalaya Project, Rejuvenating Rivers and Springs programme and Fish Sanctuaries initiatives.
"These initiatives are designed to enhance resilience against climate impacts while promoting sustainable practices that align with the state's economic activities which are reliant on its natural resources," he said, adding that Meghalaya envisions transforming into a green investment destination achieving holistic green growth, empowering local communities and fostering a sustainable economy leveraging the state's new industrial policy.
"By promoting sustainable industrial growth and providing incentives for green technologies, Meghalaya aims to transform our economic landscape while safeguarding our environment for future generations," he concluded.
During the summit, MoUs were signed for the development of Advance Farming Cluster Project of Rs 125 crore, MultipurposeConvention Centre, University Campus, recreation and associated facilities for Rs 1300 crore, Meghalaya Cable Car Ropeway Project for Rs 500 crore, Sustainable Collection and Conversion of Septic Waste and Sewage Waste into Natural Fertilisers for Rs 125 crore, Artificial Intelligence for Rs 1500 crore and development of hydropower for Rs 1,000 crore.
Also present during the event was Igor Panic, minister of science and innovation, Slovenia.
#83
 policy paper on energy transition pathways, promised in the Budget, is expected to help a smooth shift, without any shock, and give investors the confidence to take a long-term view.
The paper will balance the imperatives of employment, growth and environmental sustainability, Sitharaman said, echoing the suggestion for a multi-pronged approach to energy transition made in the Economic Survey.
It will outline the roles that various types of energy sources will play through the transition. In the Indian context, this means a using mix of energy, including fossil fuels, and focus on clean technology for carbon mitigation.
To this end, the Budget expanded the list of exempted capital goods for use in the manufacture of solar cells and panels in the country, a move that will reduce costs and speed up expansion of solar capacity, especially through rooftop solar schemes. However, Customs duty exemption for solar glass and tinned copper interconnect was not extended in view of sufficient domestic manufacturing capacity.
The Budget also promised a policy paper for promoting pumped storage power projects, seen as a cheaper alternative to battery storage systems for safe integration of rising solar capacity into the grid.
In line with the suggestion of Economic Survey, the Budget made it clear that coal will continue to play a major role in fuelling economic growth. But the focus will shift to developing 'clean tech' such as ultra-super critical power plants with 800 MW capacity.
The Budget also promised a roadmap to shift "hard-to-abate" industries, such as shipping, aviation, iron and steel and chemicals, from focusing on energy-efficiency targets to emission targets.
#84
The European Union's climate czar said Tuesday the 27-nation bloc should ensure that the most vulnerable people won't pay the heaviest price of the green transition, and pledged measures guaranteeing equal burden-sharing across society, amid a global surge of energy prices.

"The one thing we cannot afford is for the social side to be opposed to the climate side. I see this threat very clearly now that we have a discussion about the price hike in the energy sector," said Frans Timmermans, the European Commission vice president in charge of climate issues.

As the global demand for gas has soared, energy prices have surged across Europe at a time when the EU is pushing for a quick phasing-out of coal and the development of sustainable sources of energy. Carbon prices have rocketed in recent months, having an impact on electricity bills.

"Only about one-fifth of the price increase can be attributed to Co2 prices rising. The other is simply a consequence of shortage in the market," said Timmermans, noting that prices for renewables have kept low and stable.

Timmermans spoke at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, during a debate on proposed legislation aimed at helping the bloc cutting emissions of the gases that cause global warming at least by 55% by 2030.

Timmermans said the price hikes in the energy sector should lead the bloc to accelerate the transition toward renewable energy. He pointed out that if the transition had started sooner, the current situation would not have arisen because countries would be less dependent on fossil fuels and natural gas.

The commission's proposals included in the "Fit for 55 package'' presented this summer encompass about a dozen major proposals, ranging from the de-facto phasing out of gasoline and diesel cars by 2035 to new levies on gases from heating buildings.

They involve a revamp of the bloc's emissions trading program, under which companies pay for carbon dioxide they emit, and introduce taxes on shipping and aviation fuels for the first time.

Timmermans said the EU's executive branch proposals, which should be endorsed by EU countries and approved by the Parliament, will give the opportunity to all 27 members to introduce measures protecting their citizens, including reducing 
VAT taxes, duties on energy or giving direct support to households.

Some lawmakers voiced concerns about the impact of the plan on energy prices. 
Anna Zalewska, an MEP from coal-reliant Poland, said citizens will "unfortunately pay for the ambitions of the EU.''

"That's why I think what we need to do is to make sure that they do not end up in energy poverty,'' she said.

Green lawmaker Ska Keller said public subsidies for fossil fuels should be ended immediately in an accelerated switch to renewable energies.
Pascal Canfin, the chair of the Parliament committee on the environment, praised the proposal to put an end to petrol and diesel cars but expressed skepticism at the idea of extending the EU's carbon market to transport and buildings.

"Because we believe that the political cost is extremely high, and the climate impact is very low," he said.

Putting a price on emissions from buildings and transport has raised concerns the measure could trigger social protests across Europe similar to the "yellow vests" movement which started in France in 2018 after an increase in fuel taxes.

World leaders agreed six years ago in Paris to work to keep global temperatures from increasing more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), and ideally no more than 1.5 degrees C (2.7 F) by the end of the century. Scientists say both goals will be missed by a wide margin unless drastic steps are taken to reduce emissions.

"I believe we can still fix it," Timmermans said. "I believe we can prevent the climate crisis from getting out of hand and out of control." 
#85
Union Minister Pralhad Joshi highlighted India's advances in green shipping and renewable energy at the Hamburg Sustainability Conference. India, the only G20 nation to have met its climate targets ahead of schedule, has significantly increased its renewable energy capacity since 2014. Key initiatives include the National Green Hydrogen Mission and the modernization of shipyards to support green shipping.
Emphasizing India's significant progress in green shipping and energy transition, Union Minister of New and Renewable Energy, Pralhad Joshi stated that India stands as a global voice in its commitment to the pursuit of a sustainable energy future that aligns with growth ambitions and environmental responsibilities. Joshi while addressing at the Hamburg Sustainability Conference in Germany on Monday stated that India has achieved significant milestones in its shift to renewable energy. "India is the only G20 country to have met its climate targets ahead of the schedule, despite having the lowest per capita emissions among G20 nations," he remarked. He emphasized that energy security and access remain paramount for India, but this has not hindered the commitment to energy transition on both national and global scales.
Union Minister Joshi stated that India has witnessed a transformative increase in its renewable energy capacity since 2014, with a 175% rise from 75 GW to over 208 GW now. Total RE increased from 193.5 billion units to 360 BU, marking an 86% rise during this period. Solar energy capacity has also grown 33 times in the last 10 years. He also emphasized that International Solar Alliance, supported by over 100 countries, demonstrates India's leadership in global efforts to combat climate change through solar energy.
Speaking about the theme of Green Shipping, Joshi emphasized the crucial role of the maritime sector in global trade and its impact on greenhouse gas emissions. "As we progress towards achieving net-zero emissions, the necessity for sustainable maritime transport has become very important. India is making significant strides in the green shipping sector, driven by government initiatives, technological advancements, and international collaborations", he stated.
The Minister detailed how Indian shipyards are being modernized and older dockyards are being evaluated for reopening to expand green shipbuilding capacity. He cited the strong emphasis on alternative fuels and renewable energy sources like biofuels and wind power. India is upgrading its port infrastructure to support green shipping fuels and vessels using hybrid models, with the goal of ranking among the top five shipbuilding nations by 2047.

The National Green Hydrogen Mission (NGHM), launched with an outlay of $2.4 billion, aims to produce 5 million metric tonnes (MMT) of green hydrogen annually by 2030, attracting over $100 billion in investments and creating more than 6 lakh jobs. He also invited international stakeholders to collaborate in India's ambitious green hydrogen and renewable energy projects.
Pilot projects under the NGHM, with an investment of $14 million, are already exploring the use of green hydrogen in the shipping sector. "We are focusing on converting existing vessels to operate on green hydrogen or its derivatives. The Shipping Corporation of India is currently converting two vessels to run on green methanol," the Minister explained. India with an investment of approximately $25 million, is setting the stage for development of hydrogen hubs that will transform its energy landscape.
#86
Recognising the critical role of nuclear power in India's clean energy transition, the government on Sunday said the country is taking steps for development of small modular reactors (SMR) with up to 300 MW capacity that may not just be cost effective but also simpler and safer as compared to large nuclear plants.
Referring to the move, science and atomic energy minister Jitendra Singh called upon the private sector and startups to explore development of this critical technology within India.
Addressing a workshop on SMR, organised by government think tank Niti Aayog and department of atomic energy, Singh said as the country has already taken steps for clean energy transition with penetration of non-fossil based energy resources to achieve net-zero emission by 2070, nuclear power in terms of base load power can play a big role in the de-carbonisation strategy.
Being mobile and agile technology, SMR can be factory-built, unlike the conventional nuclear reactors that are built on-site, and can significantly save construction time. It's a promising technology in industrial de-carbonisation, especially where there is a requirement of reliable and continuous supply of power.
On India's potential in the nuclear energy sector, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) director general Rafael Mariano Grossi recently in an interview told TOI that the country has all the technological capabilities. "I think India has what many others don't... It has a diversified fleet of reactors with different technologies... I believe that India has an advantage and I hope it will come to fruition," said Grossi who is expected to be in India within the next few months to look into the country's nuclear energy programme.
Singh at the workshop noted that the exploration of new clean energy options is in tune with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's roadmap for clean energy transition through bold climate commitments which are reflected in the country's updated 'nationally determined contributions' (NDCs) - climate action targets - under the Paris Agreement.
#87
Annual investment in clean energy in the Global South, including India, needs to be increased by five to seven times to reach at least $1.7 trillion annually by the early 2030s to stay in line with the Paris Agreement mitigation goals, noted a report of the World Economic Forum (WEF) on how to unlock capital for such investment released on Wednesday.
Launching an innovative digital platform, outlining 100 proven policy measures that have successfully helped unlock capital for clean energy investment in 47 emerging markets and developing economies (EMDEs), the report appreciated India's efforts noting how the country achieved its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) - climate actions under the Paris Agreement pledges - target of 40% installed electricity capacity from renewables in November 2021, nine years ahead of schedule.
"India's coordinating role in global and national solar deployment places the nation at the forefront for solar development and investment," it said.
The digital platform, called Playbook of Solutions, offers practical insights on how these approaches can be replicated, adapted, and scaled by others to accelerate the global energy transition. It highlighted four integrated national approaches with a detailed analysis of success stories of India, Brazil, Chile and Egypt.
Though the report pitched for accelerating the clean energy transition and tripling renewables by 2030, as agreed by G20 nations in New Delhi last year, through a vast scale-up of investment and finance, it expressed a concern that the EMDEs get less than one-fifth of global energy investments despite they represent 90% of the growth in global energy demand by 2035 while hosting the lion's share of the global population.

It attributed such a low investment in EMDEs to "risk profiles and regulatory environments" that, it said, may not align with the preferences of many investors.
"Public-private partnerships and international cooperation will be key to ensuring an equitable and sustainable clean energy future for emerging economies," Roberto Bocca, head of the WEF's Centre for Energy and Materials, was quoted as saying in the report.
"As the
Playbook
demonstrates, governments can create favourable investment conditions, multilateral development banks can bridge capital gaps and private investors can drive growth through innovative de-risking and financial strategies. All stakeholders have a critical role to play in applying this at scale," he said.
#88
The inaugural International Synthetic Fuels Conference (ISFC-2024) at GITAM University, Visakhapatnam, brought together global experts to discuss nuclear and hydrogen fuels for clean energy transition. The event highlighted cutting-edge research in small modular reactors and hydrogen production, fostering collaboration among academia, industry, and government. Plans for future conferences were announced, emphasizing India's commitment to sustainable energy solutions and the Viksit Bharat vision for 2047.
The first edition of the two-day International Synthetic Fuels Conference (ISFC-2024), held at GITAM University, Visakhapatnam, concluded, leaving a lasting impact on the global discourse on clean energy and sustainable development. The conference, organised by GITAM University, the India Smart Grid Forum (ISGF), and Amity University, brought together 24 international and Indian experts and over 150 participants to deliberate on the 'integration of nuclear and hydrogen fuels for energy transition.'The conference featured plenary addresses by Dr. Vijay Kumar Saraswat, member of NITI Aayog, and Dr. John McAuliff, senior adviser on clean energy to the US government. Other notable speakers included experts from renowned institutions like Georgia Mason University, Huddersfield University, BARC, IIT Delhi, IIT Madras, and industry leaders from NTPC and L&T.It emphasised the urgent need to transition towards clean energy sources to mitigate climate change and achieve net-zero emissions. The discussions cantered around the potential of nuclear energy and hydrogen fuels in decarbonising various sectors, including industry and transportation.
The conference also showcased cutting-edge research and technological advancements in small modular reactors , hydrogen production, and carbon capture utilization and storage. The role of electronic beamers in SMR design and the utilization of CO2 from seawater for hydrogen production were among the key topics explored.It aimed to foster collaboration between academia, industry, and government, paving the way for future research projects and initiatives in clean energy. The organizers announced plans to continue the ISFC series, with the next conference scheduled for 2025 in Bengaluru or Hyderabad. The conference stressed upon the role of clean energy in achieving the Viksit Bharat vision, highlighting the importance of sustainable energy solutions for India's development and prosperity.Commenting on the same, Prof. V.S.R.K. Prasad, former director of the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy said, "It is our responsibility to educate about pollution-free energy sources and ensure no further damage is done to the environment."Dr M Ganapati, conference chair said, "We have just started our journey and strongly believe India will be self-sufficient in fossil fuels in a decade and will be able to export the fuels thereby becoming energy independent, prosperous and healthy."Prof. Yejju Gouthama Rao said, "Cost-effective, clean and sustainable energy plays an important role in transforming India from an emerging developed economy to a developed economy by 2047."According to the organisers, the ISFC-2024 was a crucial platform for knowledge exchange, collaboration, and charting a roadmap for a sustainable energy future. The conference highlighted the potential of nuclear and hydrogen technologies in achieving a clean energy transition and underscored the importance of continued research and development in this field.
#89

The Energy Transition Dialogues (TETD) recently concluded with the release of TETD Communique, a roadmap for accelerating a sustainable energy transition in India and the world. The Communique covers key areas such as renewable energy, energy efficiency, decarbonisation of transport, and clean energy financing. The Global Biofuels Alliance was also announced during the event. A report on accelerating battery storage adoption in India was released, highlighting the importance of integrating battery energy storage systems at the distribution level.
The Energy Transition Dialogues (TETD), a three-day event organised by the Global Energy Alliance for People and Planet (GEAPP) and the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), recently concluded with the release of TETD Communique - Blueprint for a People-Positive Energy Transition, a roadmap outlining key principles and actionable plan crucial for accelerating a sustainable energy transition in India and the world.


The Communique is the outcome of months of collaborative discussions convened by GEAPP on the sidelines of the G20 covering six critical pillars of energy action - enhancing Renewable Energy (RE) and Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) to achieve 50GW per annum; scaling up energy efficiency; utility modernization; decarbonisation of transport; people positive energy transition, and clean energy financing. The document outlines key priority areas along with policy and regulatory recommendations to propel India's net zero ambitions. It sets out a carefully thought-out blueprint for reliable energy access in the lead-up to COP28.
The 'New Delhi Declaration', GEAPP is committed to supporting the government's vision of accelerating clean, sustainable, affordable, and inclusive energy transition. The Global Biofuels Alliance, announced during the G20 conference in India, will act as a platform for fostering global collaboration for the advancement and widespread adoption of biofuel.
The event drew to a close with a keynote address by Tarun Kapoor, Advisor, Prime Minister's Office, stating, "Energy transition pathway is challenging but not very difficult. India is currently seeing an exponential growth and demand for energy. To ensure energy security, affordability and environmental protection, country has to utilise renewables, green hydrogen and biofuels for sustainable and clean energy future."
A comprehensive report on 'Accelerating Battery Storage Adoption by DISCOMS in India' was also released during the event. This report is a result of the collective effort by GEAPP and RMI. This report addresses the pivotal role of energy storage, emphasising the importance of integrating BESS assets at the distribution level to meet the evolving demands of our power system.
#90
Essar Energy Transition (EET), the UK-focused energy entity promoted by the Mumbai-based Ruia family, has launched the EET Hydrogen Power initiative for building Europe's first hydrogen-ready combined heat and power plant at its refinery in Stanlow by 2027 but did not divulge the size of the investment.
The plant is a key component of EET's overall $3 billion energy transition initiatives in the North West of England.
The plant will support group subsidiary EET Fuels' ambition to become the lowest-carbon process refinery globally and EET Hydrogen's efforts to become the leading low carbon hydrogen producer in the UK. It will also provide low-carbon power to other industrial users in the region to support their decarbonisation targets.
EET Hydrogen Power will become an independent vertical under EET and developed in two phases to achieve a capacity of 125 MW of power and 6,000 tonnes per day of steam. Replacement with hydrocarbons will lead to a reduction of 740,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide per annum.
The new plant will replace Stanlow's existing boiler units, which currently generate approximately 50 MW of power for refinery operations. The plant is integral to the decarbonisation of operations at EET Fuels' Stanlow refinery, which plans to cut total emissions by 95% by 2030, to become the world's lowest carbon refinery.
"We have bold ambitions for Stanlow to become a low-carbon transition hub at the centre of the HyNet Industrial Cluster. EET Hydrogen Power will be Europe's first 100% hydrogen-ready gas-turbine plant which will be supplied with EET Hydrogen's low carbon hydrogen. This project will create significant benefit by contributing to regional emissions' reductions targets," the company quoted EET Hydrogen Power CEO Rob Wallace as saying.

EET Hydrogen Power is a key infrastructure project, supporting the decarbonisation plans of the wider HyNet industrial cluster as well as forming a blueprint for future industrial and power decarbonisation. The investment also delivers on EET's contribution in supporting and growing high skilled employment in the North West.
"Launching EET Hydrogen Power shows the progress that Essar Energy Transition is making in delivering against its commitment to put the UK at the forefront of low carbon energy. EET Hydrogen Power helps bring this commitment to life and demonstrates our intention to globally showcase the pathway to decarbonising vital high emitting industries," the company quoted EET managing director Tony Fountain as saying.
EET includes: EET Hydrogen Power; EET Fuels, the owner of the Stanlow refinery); EET Hydrogen that is developing over 1.3 gigawatt (GW) of blue and green hydrogen capacity for the UK market, with follow-on capacity ambition of 4 GW; and Stanlow Terminals Ltd, the UK's largest independent bulk liquid storage terminal that is developing enabling transport and storage infrastructure for biofuels and new energies.
#91
G-20 Research and Innovation Initiative (RIIG) summit, bringing together leading economic powers to address various challenges, will come out with its final outcome document at the end of its ongoing meeting in Mumbai on Wednesday, marking the culmination of the G-20 science engagements that took place through series of meetings in different parts of India during India's G 20 Presidency.
Important suggestions on clean energy and energy transition, circular bioeconomy and sustainable blue-economy are expected to be key points of the outcome document.
The summit on its inaugural day on Tuesday discussed and negotiated the draft Outcome document. Led by secretary, department of science and technology (DST) S Chandrasekhar, different departments and research institutions of the ministries of science & technology and earth sciences participated as lead partners in the RIIG meetings.
It also brought together leading scientists, policymakers, and industry experts from around the world to discuss the latest research and innovations in various fields.
"RIIG aims to address the challenges of achieving socio-economic equity through research and innovation. It serves as a platform to share ideas and create new partnerships to elevate research & innovation as a tool to achieve socio-economic equity globally," said an official in the science & technology ministry.

"The outcome document will carry the gist of these deliberations and key suggestions for the G-20 member countries which will be taken up for adoption during the G-20 summit in September," said the official.
India has taken forward the RIIG under the theme "Research and Innovation for Equitable Society". A total of five RIIG meetings were hosted by India this year. The RIIG inception meeting was held in Kolkata, followed by four thematic conferences in Ranchi (materials for sustainable energy), Dibrugarh (circular bioeconomy), Dharamshala (eco-innovations for energy transition), and Diu (sustainable blue-economy).
#92
Emphasising on India's significant progress in green shipping and energy transition, Union minister Pralhad Joshi said it stands as a global voice in its commitment to the pursuit of a sustainable energy future that aligns with growth ambitions and environmental responsibilities.
Addressing the Hamburg Sustainability Conference in Germany on Monday, Joshi said, "India has achieved significant milestones in its shift to renewable energy. It is the only G20 country to have met its climate targets ahead of schedule, despite having the lowest per capita emissions among them."
He emphasised that energy security and access remain paramount for India, but this has not hindered the commitment to energy transition on both national and global scales.
"India has witnessed a transformative increase in its renewable energy capacity since 2014, with a 175% rise from 75GW to over 208 GW now. The total renewable energy increased from 193.5 billion units to 360 BU, marking an 86% rise during this period. Solar energy capacity has also grown 33 times in the last 10 years," the Union minister of new and renewable energy said.
"The International Solar Alliance, supported by over 100 countries, demonstrates India's leadership in global efforts to combat climate change through solar energy," he added.
On the theme of green shipping, Joshi underscored the crucial role of the maritime sector in global trade and its impact on greenhouse gas emissions. "As we progress towards achieving net-zero emissions, the necessity for sustainable maritime transport has become very important. India is making significant strides in the green shipping sector, driven by govt initiatives, technological advancements and international collaborations," he said.
The minister dwelt at length on how Indian shipyards are being modernised and older dockyards are being examined for reopening to expand green shipbuilding capacity. He cited the strong emphasis on alternative fuels and renewable energy sources like biofuels and wind power. India is upgrading its port infrastructure to support green shipping fuels and vessels using hybrid models, with the goal of ranking among the top five shipbuilding nations by 2047.
Joshi said the National Green Hydrogen Mission (NGHM), launched with an outlay of $2.4 billion, aims to produce 5 million metric tonnes (MMT) of green hydrogen annually by 2030, attracting over $100 billion in investments and creating more than six lakh jobs. He also invited international stakeholders to collaborate in India's ambitious green hydrogen and renewable energy projects.
Pilot projects under the NGHM, with an investment of $14 million, are already exploring the use of green hydrogen in the shipping sector. "We are focusing on converting existing vessels to operate on green hydrogen or its derivatives. The Shipping Corporation of India is currently converting two vessels to run on green methanol," the minister said, adding that with an investment of approximately $25 million, India is setting the stage for development of hydrogen hubs that will transform its energy landscape.
Hamburg (Germany): Emphasising India's significant progress in green shipping and energy transition, Union minister Pralhad Joshi said India stands as a global voice in its commitment to the pursuit of a sustainable energy future that aligns with growth ambitions and environmental responsibilities.
Addressing the Hamburg Sustainability Conference in Germany on Monday, Joshi said, "India has achieved significant milestones in its shift to renewable energy. It is the only G20 country to have met its climate targets ahead of schedule, despite having the lowest per capita emissions among G20 nations."
He emphasised that energy security and access remain paramount for India, but this has not hindered the commitment to energy transition on both national and global scales.
"India has witnessed a transformative increase in its renewable energy capacity since 2014, with a 175% rise from 75GW to over 208 GW now. Total RE increased from 193.5 billion units to 360 BU, marking an 86% rise during this period. Solar energy capacity has also grown 33 times in the last 10 years," the Union minister of new and renewable energy said.
"The International Solar Alliance, supported by over 100 countries, demonstrates India's leadership in global efforts to combat climate change through solar energy," he added.
On the theme of green shipping, Joshi underscored the crucial role of the maritime sector in global trade and its impact on greenhouse gas emissions. "As we progress towards achieving net-zero emissions, the necessity for sustainable maritime transport has become very important. India is making significant strides in the green shipping sector, driven by govt initiatives, technological advancements, and international collaborations," he added.
The minister dwelt at length on how Indian shipyards are being modernised and older dockyards are being evaluated for reopening to expand green shipbuilding capacity. He cited the strong emphasis on alternative fuels and renewable energy sources like biofuels and wind power. India is upgrading its port infrastructure to support green shipping fuels and vessels using hybrid models, with the goal of ranking among the top five shipbuilding nations by 2047.
The National Green Hydrogen Mission (NGHM), launched with an outlay of $2.4 billion, aims to produce 5 million metric tonnes (MMT) of green hydrogen annually by 2030, attracting over $100 billion in investments and creating more than six lakh jobs. He also invited international stakeholders to collaborate in India's ambitious green hydrogen and renewable energy projects.
Pilot projects under the NGHM, with an investment of $14 million, are already exploring the use of green hydrogen in the shipping sector. "We are focusing on converting existing vessels to operate on green hydrogen or its derivatives. The Shipping Corporation of India is currently converting two vessels to run on green methanol," the minister explained. With an investment of approximately $25 million, India is setting the stage for development of hydrogen hubs that will transform its energy landscape.
#93
Ashish Chaturvedi, head of Action for Climate and Environment, UNDP India, discussed the challenges and road ahead for just transition and energy transition at an international conference in Ranchi, Jharkhand. He emphasized the need for cutting emissions, phasing out coal mines, ensuring an equitable transition, and promoting energy security through renewable energy development and industry diversification.
The head of Action for Climate and Environment, UNDP India, Ashish Chaturvedi, is an experienced international cooperation expert with a demonstrated history of working at a bilateral cooperation organisation and research institutes. He was in Ranchi to take part in an international conference on sustainable transition for future-ready Jharkhand. On the sidelines of the event, Chaturvedi spoke to Jaideep Deogharia in detail about the challenges and the road ahead.
Excerpts
How is just transition different from energy transition?
Climate change is being experienced in different parts of the globe and we have learnt that much of it is triggered by greenhouse gases. If we want to contain global warming within the 1.5°C range, we must act towards cutting down emissions. To achieve this target, some countries must phase out fossil fuels, including coal, while others must phase down. This phase down of coal is not simply an energy transition because it has been the mainstay of the economy in many states of the country for over a century. While switching over to renewable energy sources, we must think about the people engaged in the sector and the socio-economic and political impacts of such a transition. The moment we keep 'people' at the centre of discussions over energy transition, it must be equitable and sustainable so that it has minimal or no adverse impact on the masses. This process is also described by the term 'just' which basically means no 'injustice' to anyone.
Why are we talking of just transition when energy transition does not seem to be a reality in Jharkhand? Alongside talks of coal phase-down, the nod is being given for new coal mines every second day in the state.

When we talk of coal phase down or phase out to achieve a net-zero target by 2070, we are not talking of states individually. The goal is for the country in which some states may be on the positive side and some on the negative side. As of now, coal is cheap and abundant, and our infrastructure, which is developed around coal as the energy source. It will take time to overhaul the entire ecosystem and till then, we need coal. Though this question can be better answered by the policy makers, what we understand is that achieving a net-zero goal is a long-drawn process and even if new mines come up, there would be closure other others and the demand for fossil fuel will come down gradually. Every state must be prepared for such a scenario and if Jharkhand is taking the lead in becoming future-ready, there is nothing wrong with that.

What role is UNDP playing in realising the goal of net zero and just transition?
UNDP is a supporting agent to help various govts meet their targets. We ask uncomfortable questions and help them achieve their goals while keeping society and people at the centre of their considerations. We have partnered with the task force on just transition (of the govt of Jharkhand) for the last two years. Through the National Livelihood Mission, we ensure the generation of livelihood scopes in areas affected by climate change. We also arrange funds for carrying out projects, ensure that the money reaches the right hands and assist in capacity-building. In Bihar, we have distributed solar cold storage facilities to 'Jeevika didis' (women SHGs of the state govt's rural development department) so that litchi can be stored and sold in the market with minimum wastage. In Jharkhand, we are assisting in brainstorming by engaging partners from across the globe in conferences like this, so that a road map is prepared.
There have been SoPs for mine closure and reclaiming land of closed mines but they are hardly followed. Do you think linking the finances with compliance reports can be a solution?
I don't believe in punitive action though a carrot-and-stick approach can be taken up for better results. We have to first analyse the reasons for the poor implementation of the guidelines in case of mine closure. Say, for example, if there are no alternative job opportunities for the local populace, they will still take to illegal mining activities even after mine closures. We have to first see the underlying reason and then decide. Sometimes, incentivizing the right practices brings out better results.
Jharkhand has been a coal-rich state but when we see the renewable infrastructure, most of it is being developed in the western and southern states of the country. Is it not the beginning of an "unjust" transition?
Energy security can come from any state and as I said energy transition must ensure just transition. We can explore new industries, suiting the area and accordingly skill the people to make them ready. Maybe some agriculture practice or some sort of cottage industry will help engage more and more people. It has been a part of the discussions that UNDP holds at various levels so that people do not suffer on the livelihood front and for that, local needs and demands should be taken into consideration.
#94
Japanese electronics, white goods and tech solutions giant Panasonic is setting up a joint venture with state-run Indian Oil to manufacture lithium-ion (li-ion) batteries and energy storage systems in India to tap the anticipated growth in demand in the wake of energy transition gathering pace in the country.Panasonic will execute the joint venture through its group arm, Panasonic Energy, which has signed a binding agreement with India's largest oil refiner and fuel retailer for working out the joint venture framework by "this summer", Panasonic said on Sunday.The joint venture will manufacture cylindrical li-ion batteries that have a wide range of applications - from consumer electronics to two- and three-wheelers - as well as battery storage systems, the latest buzzword in the renewable power sector.The two- and three-wheeler segments have shown healthy growth in the pace of transition in India, leading to substantial demand for li-ion batteries. Similarly, battery storage has been identified as a key element in making solar projects a viable source of round-the-clock power.The joint venture with Panasonic is IndianOil's latest clean energy initiative to meet its 2046 net-zero target. The company has a venture with Phinergy, an Israeli start-up specialising in hybrid li-ion and aluminium-air/zinc-air battery systems.
Panasonic already has a footprint in India's energy transition through group company Panasonic Life Solutions choosing the country as a base for expanding production of solar gears to serve the domestic and select export markets.Panasonic and IndianOil are conducting a feasibility study for selecting battery technology suitable for India's energy transition pathway.The partnership with IndianOil will lead to the growth of India's battery industry by enhancing cell technology and creating domestic demand for raw materials and new entrants, Panasonic said.Through its partnership with IndianOil, Panasonic Energy aims to contribute towards India's goals of achieving self-reliance in battery manufacturing by establishing a complete supply chain ecosystem.
#95
The Hamburg Sustainability Conference, opened with addresses by German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and other global leaders, emphasized collaborative efforts for sustainability and achieving the SDGs. Key discussions underlined financial challenges faced by LDCs and highlighted the necessity for global cooperation and investment in green transitions.
Aiming to make collective efforts to achieve sustainability and make progress in achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals including eliminating poverty, energy transition, two days Hamburg Sustainability Conference (HSC) started at Hamburg, the second most populated city of Germany, on Monday. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in his presidential address at the opening of HSC said that "all the nations together can meet challenges of green transition.
At a time when we are confronting numerous international crises, we need to tighten up and share responsibilities, means and technologies between civil society institution and the private sector and create new platforms for confrontation between experts from the Global North and the Global South," the German head of the government said. We need to work together on a global financial architecture to facilitate investments. In fact, without cooperation it will be impossible to achieve climate targets, he added at the event that brings together members of institutions, civil society and business in Germany.
"Many nations are falling short to achieve the SDGs targets set up in 2015. Earlier Covid brought financial and social crisis as since then more than 50 nations have had to divert much of their investments on education, from climate and other issues to address the emergency, but we are still making progress on climate. We are working together in a time of milestones and wars and looking at a sustainable future together, said Achim Steiner, Administrator UNDP.
Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley, Namibia President Nangolo Mbumba, German Federal Minister for economic development Svenja Schulze, World Bank President Ajay Banga while addressing the conference and taking part in a panel discussion stressed the need of finances to achieve the SDGs.
UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner said many least developed countries have literally been cut off from financial markets. They cannot borrow more because of the risk of default. In this context, for green transition investments we are asking them for a bigger effort than what was originally planned. Figuring out how to mobilize more money and invest in an effective transition will be one of the challenges we will face at COP29 in Azerbaijan in November", he added.
"Meeting the UN climate and development targets will cost LDCs $500 billion by the end of the decade. This is a disgrace for us. As wealthier states we need to mobilize billions to help them", said Kristalina Georgieva, Managing Director, International Monetary Fund. We can't waste a penny with all the challenges the world is facing from the climate crisis to new technologies to conflicts, she added, stressing that it is not enough to rescue states in economic distress, but we must work together and think about how they can grow.
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz pointing towards conflict between Israel and Palestine showcased the pain with the Israel over its citizens having been abducted and killed over a year ago. "We feel Israel's horror, pain, uncertainty and sadness. We stand with you", he said while addressing the Hamburg Sustainability Conference, while recalling the anniversary of the Hamas attack on Israeli civilians last October 7.
The subsequent war has caused enormous suffering in the Gaza Strip. That is why the German Federal government stands for a ceasefire, the release of hostages and a political process, even if it seems further away today than ever before". The people need hope and prospects if they are to give up terror. This will only be possible by avoiding escalation in the area," Scholz stressed adding that Iran and Hezbollah must stop their attack on Israel".
#96
Union minister for power RK Singh on Sunday said India has set itself the target of producing 500 gigawatts of power -- about 50% of the country's total energy requirement, through non-fossil fuel sources by 2030.
"India is among the top 5 major economies in terms of achieving energy transition from fossil fuels to non-fossil fuels. We had pledged to produce 40% of capacity through non-fossil fuels by 2030, but we have achieved it as early as November 2020.
Now, prime minister Narendra Modi has set a higher target for us to achieve 500 gigawatt power generation, which is more than 50% of our capacity, by 2030," said Singh at a press conference in the backdrop of the ongoing G20 meetings.
The First Energy Transitions Working Group meeting started on Sunday and it will continue on Monday.
Singh said India will sign an MOU with Malaysia for providing efficient street lighting, during the group meeting.
Replying to a media query on the Centre cutting the allocation for the Ujjwala scheme to provide LPG connection to the poor households in rural areas, Singh said the LPG is only an interim stop in achieving clean energy and electric cooking is the final stop. "However, the poor will continue getting LPG subsidies since the usage of cooking gas is better than cow dung or firewood," he added.
Answering another question, the reforms being brought in by amending the
Electricity Act, 2003, is not about privatising electricity distribution companies (DISCOMs) (ESCOMs), but it is aimed at making them competitive by allowing more than one licensee holders in the field.
stressing the importance of transition of energy generation from fossil fuels to non-fossil fuels and renewable sources, Singh said achieving affordable storage of energy is critical. Observing that around 600 to 800 million people across the world do not have access to energy, Singh said energy transition cannot be achieved without ensuring energy access to all and efficient energy storage. He said the ongoing group meeting will focus on two major objectives of energy access and energy security.
While emphasizing the need of energy transition, Singh said the dependence on fossil fuel such as coal is inevitable till the efficient means of generation from non-fossil fuel and storage is achieved.
#97
India will need an investment of Rs 4 lakh crore for implementation of 113 gigawatt (GW) of renewable energy projects in the pipeline, a report said on Thursday. India's energy transition is gaining momentum post-COVID with strong backing from policy enablers focused on improving ease of doing business, competitiveness, and self-reliant supply chains, the joint report of EY-FICCI said.
According to the report titled 'Accelerating India's Clean Energy Transition', about 103 GW of utility-scale renewable power generation projects and 11 GW of distributed renewable power generation projects are in the pipeline in India.
"Total renewable power generation projects in the pipeline would need approximately Rs 4 lakh crore of capital investment with the potential to avoid 4,350 MT of CO2 emissions over their lifetime," it said.
The implementation of these projects will create a total of 8,96,500 fresh jobs, the report said.
Somesh Kumar, Partner and National Leader, Power and Utilities at EY India, said, "India's energy transition may leave fossil fuel industries, communities, and workers exposed to muted or declining demand for fossil fuel commodities in the long term. Understanding and addressing the social dimensions of the energy transition is critical to ensure that fossil fuel communities are not left behind." PTI ABI SHW SHW
#98
India relies heavily on oil from the Middle East. The Israel-Hamas conflict could put that at risk.
India's renewable energy transition has been commendable, but the nation still relies heavily on fossil fuels.
It is the world's third largest oil consumer and imports 85 percent of its oil supply which makes it particularly vulnerable to any market volatility.
Around 60 percent of India's oil comes from the Middle East which means any upheaval in that region is a major cause for concern. The Israel-Hamas war in Gaza is just the kind of crisis that could lead to destabilisation in oil production and affect the world oil prices.
India is also a close ally of Israel which could potentially affect Delhi's trade relationship with Arab nations and therefore jeopardise oil imports, although India's huge consumer market might shield against any harsh step by the Gulf oil states.
To complicate things, about 70 percent of India's public sector refineries' oil import is through term contracts while the rest are spot purchases. This means while supply is ensured, price and other conditions favour the sellers.

However, the duration of any conflict becomes crucial, too. If the war does not continue beyond the duration of India's term contracts with suppliers, everything should be fine. But if the Gaza conflict drags on like the Russia-Ukraine war, India might need to generate import alternatives, although it would have time on its side.
India's strategic petroleum reserve has enough crude oil supply for just 9.5 days. Private companies, on the other hand, have a cumulative reserve capacity of 64.5 days.
Many countries have their own strategic reserve plans to secure energy supplies in a crisis.
The US has the world's largest reported reserve capacity of 727 million barrels which roughly amounts to 60 days of supply. China has 475 million barrels and Japan 324 million barrels.
All members of the international energy agency, which India joined as an associate member in 2017, are required to maintain an emergency oil reserve which can be released to stabilise prices in the event of any oil shocks.
India and Israel's bilateral trade and economic relationship began in 1992 and is now worth about USD$11 billion. India is Israel's second largest trade partner in Asia with USD$8.4 billion of exports and USD$2.3 billion of imports in 2022-23. Thus, any long-term conflict could be detrimental to the Israeli economy and therefore India's balance of payments.
The Abraham peace accords, mediated by the US, and signed by Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain in September 2020 benefits India, opening doors to many multilateral agreements with other nations.
India and Israel are also part of the I2U2 group, along with the UAE and US. The group focuses on joint investments and cooperation on water, energy, transport, space, health, and food security.
At the G20 meet in New Delhi in September 2023, a memorandum was signed between India, the US, Saudi Arabia, UAE, France, Germany and Italy to develop the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor' (IMEEC) which would run through Saudi Arabia to Haifa port in Israel and onward to Greece.
The corridor would connect Mumbai and Gujarat port with the UAE through a shipping route and then a rail network connecting UAE, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Israel. Haifa is strategically very important as it connects to Greece and the rest of Europe.
This proposed network could significantly enhance regional energy security. If energy security is affected by geopolitical issues like war, diversifying energy supply alternatives is a more realistic strategy. The Gaza war puts all such multilateral initiatives under strain.
Decarbonisation has received sufficient focus in Indian policy making, which was revealed by India's nationally determined contributions, Net Zero announcement at COP 26, formulation and implementation of EV policies, and establishment of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) to promote renewable power and energy efficiency.
However, due to the inherent variability in generation of renewable energy, complete reliability on solar, wind and others to meet India's huge and increasing demand for power seems far-fetched.
Energy transition through focus on renewable energy also faces other challenges in India. The major one is India's dependency on China for renewable technologies and related important raw materials (such as rare earth materials).
Without indigenous technology development, the transition to renewable energy will merely transfer India's dependence on oil sourced overseas to a dependence on renewable technologies and raw material from overseas.
In addition, the market for renewable technology and related raw materials is very concentrated which could lead to severe energy security threat in case of geopolitical issues.
However, a focus on green hydrogen and cross border electricity trade (CBET) could address those issues. While green hydrogen technology is still in its infancy, CBET is already taking place with Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal. But reaping full potential benefits of CBET requires significant infrastructure development and various other cross border common regulations.
Given all these challenges, short- or medium-term geopolitical disturbance like Gaza would not be expected to influence the momentum to India's energy transition but India will definitely follow its own decarbonisation pathway.
#99
India finds itself at a crossroads as it wrestles with the complexities of meeting its escalating energy demands while striving to transition towards cleaner, renewable sources. Recent research indicates that the nation's energy subsidies have surged to a nine-year high, reaching INR 3.2 lakh crore (USD 39.3 billion) for the fiscal year ending in 2023.
Despite positioning itself as a global climate leader in recent years, India's reliance on fossil fuels remains significant, with coal, oil, and gas subsidies contributing approximately 40% of total energy subsidies in FY 2023.
This stands in stark contrast to clean energy subsidies, which accounted for less than 10% of the total.
The surge in fossil fuel subsidies can be attributed in part to the 2022 global energy crisis, exacerbated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, prompting India to implement measures to stabilize domestic energy prices. These measures included capping retail prices of petrol, diesel, and liquefied petroleum gas, as well as providing tax cuts and direct transfers to businesses and consumers.
According to a report by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), oil and gas subsidies alone rose by 63% in FY 2023 compared to the previous fiscal year. Similarly, coal subsidies increased by 17% over the same period, reflecting India's continued dependence on fossil fuels despite its ambitions for clean energy transition.
With rapid economic growth propelling India towards a USD 5 trillion economy by 2027, the government is investing heavily in all forms of energy supply. However, experts caution that this approach could hinder progress towards India's clean energy goals for 2030 and perpetuate dependence on volatile and geopolitically risky fossil fuels.
Swasti Raizada, Policy Advisor at IISD, emphasized the need for targeted subsidies and a return to market-based pricing to avoid mounting budgetary impacts. Raizada stressed that untargeted fossil fuel subsidies are inefficient and detract from the fiscal resources available for supporting clean energy technologies.

In light of these challenges, the report recommends that the government consider reallocating a portion of fossil fuel tax revenues to support a just transition towards cleaner energy sources. Deepak Sharma, Policy Analyst at IISD, underscored the importance of ensuring that state-owned enterprises align with India's net-zero commitments to facilitate a sustainable and inclusive energy transition.
India clearly grapples with the dual imperatives of meeting rising energy demands and reducing carbon emissions. The path forward hinges on decisive policy actions that prioritize clean energy investments while mitigating the adverse impacts of fossil fuel subsidies.
#100
The Energy & Climate Initiatives Society (ENCIS) announced the launch of "Bharat Electricity" - A landmark initiative to showcase the remarkable transformation of India's power sector over the last decade. Co-located with the POWERGEN India & Indian Utility Week, the integrated events are scheduled for 04th - 06th September 2024 at Yashobhoomi, IICC Dwarka in New Delhi.
The Energy & Climate Initiatives Society (ENCIS) announced the launch of "Bharat Electricity" - A landmark initiative to showcase the remarkable transformation of India's power sector over the last decade. Co-located with the POWERGEN India & Indian Utility Week, the integrated events are scheduled for 04th - 06th September 2024 at Yashobhoomi, IICC Dwarka in New Delhi.
A Global Energy Forum Themed "Affordable, Accessible & Sustainable Energy for All", Bharat Electricity would host the environment for some of the world's most forward-thinking policymakers, regulators, industry titans, thought leaders & experts sharing their unprecedented insights on navigating the challenges and opportunities in shaping a sustainable and resilient energy future for India and the world.
The co-located shows POWERGEN India & Indian Utility Week - India's premier energy business platforms are supported by the Ministry of Power, Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, Ministry of External Affairs (Economic Diplomacy Division) and the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Government of India, in addition to a host of other leading national and global energy industry organizations.
With over 200 exhibitors, 120+ expert speakers, 500+ delegates & 8000+ industry professionals, the combined events would host the environment for the global energy ecosystem stakeholders to explore, collaborate & access the unprecedented opportunities offered by India's awe-inspiring chronicle of progress, resilience & clean energy transition!
Speaking on the launch of Bharat Electricity, Mr. Abhishek Bhatnagar, Director General, ENCIS expressed, "Bharat Electricity is not just an event, it is a celebration of India's energy revolution, and the visionary leadership of Honorable Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi Ji which today is not just transformational for India but also provides a blueprint for the world to follow."
Elaborating further, Mr. Bhatnagar
said "Given the global net zero commitments, the energy industry in India is poised to play a pivotal role in the world's clean energy transition journey. This coupled with the ongoing revolution of the energy systems in India, presents the world's largest growth opportunity for the global energy ecosystem. As a Global Energy Forum, Bharat Electricity together with POWERGEN India and Indian Utility Week,offers the largest integrated, inclusive, and strategic platform for the entire value chain of the energy industry to unpack its priorities, collaborate & ensure universal access to modern energy services & a net-zero emission future."
#101
During the RE-Invest Summit in Gandhinagar, experts highlighted India's renewable energy sector's rapid growth and emphasized easy access to finance as a key driver. They discussed supportive policies at GIFT City's IFSC and noted achievements like 200 GW installations, facilitated by Power Purchase Agreements and sustainability-linked bonds.
Experts at the RE-Invest Summit held at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar on Monday expressed optimism about the rapid growth of the Indian renewable energy industry, emphasizing that easy access to finance will further propel its expansion. They highlighted the significant role that the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) at GIFT City would play, given the implementation of appropriate policies.
During a panel discussion titled "Accelerating Capital for India's Energy Transition: Spotlight on Instruments," the panelists unanimously agreed on the immense potential for accelerated growth in the Indian green energy sector.
Ashok Sharma, deputy managing director of the State Bank of India (SBI), stated, "India has achieved 200 GW of green energy installations recently, and for that, estimated finance has been around Rs 7.50 lakh crore. Finance is easily available for green energy mainly because of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs). The flow of funds is not a challenge for the renewable energy sector."
Pradeep Ramakrishnan, executive director of the IFSC Authority, emphasized the supportive regulatory framework in place, saying, "We have created rules that support green finance. Sustainability-linked bonds worth $14 billion have been raised through IFSC by companies. Also, we have directed banks for 5% lending in sustainable funding, and so far, banks at IFSC have lent around $700 million for green and sustainable purposes. We have made rules easier for international green finance, and investors can select any taxonomy."
Naval Saini, MD (renewable and power transition) at Brookfield, highlighted the necessity of a hedging market in the renewable energy sector to ensure project viability and growth.
Monu Ratra, CEO of IIFL Housing Finance, pointed out the vast potential for affordable housing in India and said that nearly 80% of houses are self-built and emphasized the need for green certification standards for self-constructed houses.
#102
The transition to green energy in Maharashtra over the next few years will affect 1 million formal workers of fossil fuel-dependent sectors as well as at least 25 lakh informal workers involved in brick-making, according to an assessment report from an environmental think tank.It said 14 districts-including Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar and Kolhapur-which account for 100% of coal mines, oil refineries and fertiliser plants in the state, will be hit the most by the switch.The report-Just Energy Transition in Maharashtra: An Opportunity for Green Growth and Green Jobs- released by International Forum for Environment, Sustainability and Technology (iFOREST) pushed for plans to upskill/reskill the affected workers and provide other support during the transition. It said the 14 districts will need plans for economic diversification, workforce transition and investments in green energy, industry and infrastructure to ensure inclusive green growth.
"Maharashtra, which accounts for 10% of the country's greenhouse gas emissions, is crucial in achieving India's climate targets, including the net zero target by 2070. The state's economy is vulnerable to energy transition as it has the largest coal-based thermal power fleet and automobile manufacturing, and the third largest number of factories directly dependent on fossil fuels," said the report.
Pravin Darade, principal secretary, state department of environment and climate change, who attended the release of the report, said Maharashtra aims to achieve a $1 trillion economy in the next five years, "but it must also honour its commitment to net zero". "A just green transition is the way to achieve the same, without causing social disruptions," he said.Jamshyd Godrej, chairman and managing director, Godrej & Boyce, said the coming together of the industry and Mumbai's financial power will be extremely important in this green transition.Avinash Dhakne, member secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, said it is vital to identify sustainable solutions for the transition and the environment. "Resource availability and costs remain crucial constraints. However, it is also an opportunity for innovation and entrepreneurship."The report came days after state govt on Jan 29 signed MoUs with seven companies for green hydrogen projects worth Rs 2.8 lakh crore that can generate more than 72,000 jobs.
#103
The ports-to-energy conglomerate will add 45 gigawatts of hybrid renewable power generation capacity and build 3 giga factories to manufacture solar panels, wind turbines and hydrogen electrolyser.
 Adani Group will invest $100 billion over the next decade, primarily in new energy and digital space that includes data centres, chairman Gautam Adani said on Tuesday, as the group bets big on India growth story. As much as 70 per cent of this investment will be in the energy transition space, Adani, the world's second-richest person, said as he continued to reveal bit by bit the group's new energy plans.
The ports-to-energy conglomerate will add 45 gigawatts of hybrid renewable power generation capacity and build 3 giga factories to manufacture solar panels, wind turbines and hydrogen electrolyser.
"As a Group, we will invest over $100 billion of capital in the next decade. We have earmarked 70 per cent of this investment for the energy transition space," Adani, founder and chairman of Adani Group, said at the Forbes Global CEO conference in Singapore.
Starting off with a modest commodities business in 1988, the 60-year-old tycoon surpassed Jeff Bezos of Amazon, French business magnate Bernard Arnault and American businessman Bill Gates to become the world's second-wealthiest person with a fortune of $143 billion.
With interests spanning sea ports, airports, green energy, cement and data centres, the combined market capitalisation of the group's listed companies is $260 billion.
The group is already the world's largest solar player.
"In addition to our existing 20 GW renewables portfolio, the new business will be augmented by another 45 GW of hybrid renewable power generation spread over 100,000 hectares of land - an area 1.4 times that of Singapore. This will lead to commercialization of three million metric tonne of green hydrogen," he said.

It will also build 3 giga factories - one for a 10 GW silicon-based photovoltaic value-chain that will be backward-integrated from raw silicon to solar panels, a 10 GW integrated wind-turbine manufacturing facility, and a 5 GW hydrogen electrolyser factory.
"Today, we can confidently state that we have a line of sight to first - become one of the least expensive producers of the green electron - and thereafter - the least expensive producer of green hydrogen," he said.
Digital space, he said, seeks to benefit from the energy transition adjacency.
"The Indian data centre market is witnessing explosive growth. This sector consumes more energy than any other industry in the world and therefore our move to build green data centres is a game-changing differentiator," he said.
The group plans to interconnect data centres through a series of terrestrial and globally linked undersea cables drawn at its ports and build consumer-based super-apps that will bring hundreds of millions of Adani's B2C consumers on one common digital platform.
"We also just finished building the world's largest sustainability cloud that already has a hundred of our solar and wind sites running on it - all off a single giant command and control centre that will soon be augmented by a global A-I lab," he said.
These new businesses will add to the burgeoning Adani empire which already is the largest airports and sea ports operator in India. It is the nation's highest valued FMCG company, the second-largest cement manufacturer and the largest integrated energy player.
"The point I would like to make is that - India is full of incredible opportunities. The real India growth story is just starting.
"This is the best window for companies to embrace India's economic resurgence and the incredible multi-decade tailwind the world's largest and most youthful democracy offers. India's next three decades will be the most defining years for the impact it will have on the world," he added.
Commenting on China, Adani said once the champion of globalization, that country is facing challenges.
"I anticipate that China - that was seen as the foremost champion of globalization - will feel increasingly isolated. Increasing nationalism, supply chain risk mitigation, and technology restrictions will have an impact," Adani said.
#104
More than 1500 delegates from G20 member countries will be flying down to Goa for the fourth Energy Transitions Working Group meeting that will be held in the state from July 19. Participants will include ministers, policymakers, experts, industry leaders and representatives from civil society organisations, who will gather to deliberate on key energy transition issues and identify actionable strategies.
This significant gathering of global energy leaders will see participation from special invitee countries and international organisations such as the International Energy Agency (IEA), and United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), marking a crucial milestone in international efforts to address energy challenges and foster sustainable development.
"This meeting presents a unique opportunity for fruitful discussions and collaborative action to address the pressing energy challenges of our time," said Sanjit Rodrigues, nodal officer for G20 in Goa. "We are committed to working with our international partners to ensure sustainable and inclusive energy solutions for the benefit of our people and the planet."
India plans to showcase its commitment to renewable energy and sustainable development at the meeting.
The six priority areas, as outlined under India's G20 presidency, include energy transition through addressing technology gaps, low-cost financing for energy transition, energy security and diversified supply chains, energy efficiency, industrial low carbon transitions and responsible consumption, fuels for future (3F), universal access to clean energy and just, affordable, and inclusive energy transition pathways.
The meeting will also provide a platform for fostering partnerships between public and private stakeholders, enabling joint initiatives and investments to drive the energy transition forward.
"Delegates will have the opportunity to immerse themselves in the unique atmosphere of the city and experience its rich heritage during the meeting," said Rodrigues. 
#105
India and Italy have agreed to explore development of green hydrogen, setting up renewable energy corridors, and joint projects in the natural gas sector as the two nations sought to strengthen partnership in energy transition.
A joint statement issued after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held the first in-person meeting with his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Rome, said the two leaders agreed to encourage joint investments of Indian and Italian companies in energy transition-related fields.
They agreed to "initiate a dialogue to support the development and deployment of green hydrogen and related technologies in India" as well as to "consider working together to support a large size green corridor project in India to capitalize on India's target to produce and integrate 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030."
The two leaders also agreed to "encourage Italian and Indian companies to develop joint projects in natural gas sector, technological innovation for decarbonisation, smart cities and other specific domains (i.e.: electrification of urban public transport)."
India set an ambitious target of building capacity to generate 450 gigawatts of electricity from renewable sources such as solar and wind and more than double the share of natural gas in its energy basket to 15 per cent by 2030 as its transitions to a low carbon emitting economy.
It is also looking at scaling up hydrogen production from all sources, particularly green hydrogen as part of its energy transition pathway.

The joint statement said a joint working group established by the memorandum of understanding on cooperation in the field of energy, signed in Delhi on October 30, 2017, will be tasked to explore cooperation in areas such as smart cities; mobility, smart-grids.
The group will also explore cooperation in electricity distribution and storage solutions; gas transportation and promoting natural gas as a bridge fuel; integrated waste management (waste-to-wealth); and green energies (green hydrogen; CNG & LNG; bio-methane; bio-refinery; second-generation bio-ethanol; castor oil; bio-oil -waste to fuel).
The two leaders also agreed to "share useful information and experiences especially in the field of policy and regulatory framework, including possible means to facilitate the transition to cleaner and commercially viable fuels/technologies, long-term grid planning, incentivizing schemes for renewables and efficiency measures, as well as with regard to financial instruments for accelerating clean energy transition."
They acknowledged significant progress in bilateral relations since the adoption of the Action Plan for an enhanced Partnership between India and Italy (2020-2024) on November 6, 2020.
They expressed their resolve to strengthen cooperation in the strategic sectors addressed by the action plan, including the cross-cutting issue of accelerating the clean energy transition to fight climate change, central to both the G20 Leaders Summit in Rome and the COP26 in Glasgow.
They also recalled the India-EU Leaders' Meeting held in Porto on May 8, 2021, where the European Union and India highlighted the urgency of addressing the interdependent challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
Th two leaders agreed to deepen cooperation for accelerating the deployment of renewable energy, including deployment of innovative renewable technologies such as offshore wind energy and exploiting the potential of green hydrogen, promoting energy efficiency, developing smart grids and storage technologies, modernizing the electricity market.
"In addition, both sides agreed on the utmost importance of cost effective integration of a growing amount of renewable energy into their respective power systems, as a key asset for an effective clean transition that generates jobs, GDP growth, reinforces universal energy access while eradicating energy poverty," it said.
"In this perspective, the two Prime Ministers appreciated India's resolve to deploy 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 as well as Italy's prompt ratification and active support to the International Solar Alliance, and agreed to launch a bilateral strategic partnership in the domain of energy transition."
Such a partnership could build on existing bilateral mechanisms, including by giving new impetus to the cooperation on renewable energy and sustainable development between the Italian ministry of ecological transition and its Indian counterparts, namely ministry of new and renewable energy, ministry of power and ministry of petroleum and natural gas, it added.
#106
An energy expert has been detained in Vietnam just days after US President Joe Biden's visit. Ngo Thi To Nhien, the executive director of the Vietnam Initiative for Energy Transition, was taken into custody on September 15. The authorities have not made any announcement about the detention, and no local media has reported it.
Vietnam detained an energy expert ,a few days after US President Joe Biden visited and announced multiple joint initiatives including on protecting human rights, the 88 Project charity said on Wednesday.
Hanoi police took Ngo Thi To Nhien, executive director of the Vietnam Initiative for Energy Transition (VIET), an independent think tank focused on green energy policy, into custody on September 15, the charity said in a statement.

The authorities have made no announcement about the detention and no local media has reported it.
A person familiar with the matter confirmed to Reuters that Nhien had been detained.

Another five energy and climate experts are currently detained in Vietnam, Project 88 said, as the Communist-ruled country has been negotiating with international partners to speed up policies to tackle climate change.
At the time of her detention, Nhien was cooperating with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)'s Vietnam office on implementing the Just Energy Transition Partnership, a $15.5 billion pledge by G7 and other countries to help Vietnam reduce its use of coal, the charity and the source said.

UNDP Vietnam was not immediately available for a comment.
Biden left Vietnam on Sept. 11 after having upgraded diplomatic relations and sealed multiple deals with Hanoi's leaders, drawing criticism from human rights organisations who accused him of sidelining issues of human rights.
The White House fact sheet about the visit weighed in at over 2,600 words, including 112 words on human rights. It mentioned "enhanced commitment to meaningful dialogue" on promoting and protecting human rights, without elaborating.
Reuters reported on Tuesday that as part of the agreement, two detained rights activists were released and another two who had been barred from leaving Vietnam would be allowed to relocate to the United States.
Before Biden's visit, Vietnam was holding at least 159 political prisoners and detaining 22 others, Human Rights Watch said earlier this month.
"Nhien's detention demonstrates that the Vietnamese government is using political prisoners as bargaining chips in diplomatic negotiations," said Project 88 co-director Ben Swanton.
#107
Dominance of fossil fuels in electricity generation in India will end by the end of the decade said Reserve Bank of India in its latest report.The report also noted that the renewable energy is expected to cross 50 per cent share in electricity generation globally. It added that the energy transition has accelerated in recent years, with the pace of clean technology deployment and capital investment surging to record levels."The era of fossil fuels' dominance is coming to an end, with renewables expected to cross 50 per cent share of electricity generation globally by the end of this decade" said RBI.It added that the rise of cleaner power generation offers a valuable window to address "hard-to-abate" sectors such as steelmaking and aviation, where low-carbon alternatives are still in their nascent stages. The central bank also highlighted that the importance of increasing investments in low-carbon energy."Cleaner power generation can drive bulk of the aggressive emissions cuts that are urgently needed, enabling more time to tackle 'hard-to-abate' areas like steelmaking and aviation, where cost competitive low-carbon solutions have yet to scale" added RBI.The report pointed out that for every dollar invested in fossil fuels, an average of three dollars needs to be allocated to renewable energy in the coming years, a substantial increase from the current ratio, where both sectors receive equal investment.
A tripling of renewable energy capacity by 2030 is seen as essential to meeting net-zero emission targets by mid-century."On the energy supply side, for every US dollar that goes to fossil fuels, an average of USD 3 needs to be invested in low-carbon energy over the remainder of the decade" RBI said.The RBI highlighted that a fully decarbonized global energy system by 2050 will come at an estimated cost of USD 215 trillion, the report projects.However, the report remains optimistic about the ongoing efforts in greening the financial sector, stressing that finding the right balance between public policy interventions and market-based competition will be key to achieving this ambitious energy transition.The central bank also noted that financial inclusion has seen significant improvement as the world continues to advance toward a more sustainable energy future.
#108

India's total energy subsidies reached a 9-year high of Rs 3.2 lakh crore (USD 39.3 billion) for the fiscal year ending 2023, with coal, oil, and gas subsidies accounting for around 40%. Clean energy subsidies accounted for less than 10%. Fossil fuel subsidies were five times greater than clean energy subsidies.
The 2022 global energy crisis, together with India's growing energy demand, has led the country to adopt a hybrid approach, expanding all forms of supply in 2023. This approach has pushed India's total energy subsidies to 9-year high of Rs 3.2 lakh crore (USD 39.3 billion) for the fiscal year ending 2023, states new report titled 'Mapping India's Energy Policy: A Decade in Action' by International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), an independent think tank working for a stable climate, sustainable resource management.
It states in recent years, India has positioned itself as an international climate leader, steering the G20 under its presidency to call for global renewable energy capacity to triple by 2030 while also funding decarbonization measures to decouple the fast-growing economy from greenhouse gas emissions and reach net-zero targets.
However, clean energy subsidies accounted for less than 10% of total energy subsidies in FY 2023, while coal, oil, and gas subsidies contributed around 40%. The majority of the remaining subsidies were for electricity consumption, particularly in agriculture.
In 2023 rising energy demands and the impact of the international energy price crisis following Russia's invasion of Ukraine led India to put several measures in place that significantly increased support for fossil fuels. With an aim to protect low-income households, India responded to peaking fossil fuel prices in 2022/2023 by capping retail prices of petrol, diesel, and domestic liquefied petroleum gas; cutting taxes; providing direct budgetary transfers to businesses and consumers; and supporting existing energy supplies. As a result, oil and gas subsidies rose by 63% in FY 2023 compared to FY 2022, according to a report by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD).
The report reveals that subsidies for coal also rose by 17% over the same period. The latest figures from the International Energy Agency also show that coal accounts for 45% of India's total primary energy supply in 2022, up from 43% in 2020. Altogether, fossil fuel subsidies were five times greater than clean energy subsidies.
Rapid economic growth, on course to drive India to become a USD 5 trillion economy by 2027, means that the government is investing in all forms of energy supply. In FY 2023, both clean energy and fossil fuel subsidies grew by around 40%.

"While fossil fuel subsidies have reduced by 59% since their peak in 2013/2014, without further targeting and a return to a market-based pricing regime, they could mount again, resulting in budgetary impacts. This is undesirable, as untargeted fossil fuel subsidies are an inefficient way of supporting low-income households, and they shrink the fiscal space available for supporting clean energy technologies," said co-author of the report Swasti Raizada, Policy Advisor at IISD.
"The current approach not only perpetuates dependence on price-volatile and geopolitically risky fossil fuels but also delays India's own clean energy goals for 2030. Clean energy solutions can instead deliver sustainable economic growth and reinstate India's global climate leadership as an agenda-setting country with a practical vision for eliminating pollution and meeting essential climate goals."
The report also recommends that the government could consider earmarking a portion of its fossil fuel tax revenues to support its emerging just transition needs.
Deepak Sharma, Policy Analyst at the IISD, said: "Previous studies show that India will require significant investment to make its energy transition just, sustainable, and inclusive. India's state-owned enterprises will be a critical part of this shift. As their majority shareholder, the government should ensure that all fresh capital going to these entities is linked to India's net zero commitments."
#109
In a first of its kind independent domestic study on low-carbon economy growth path, IIM Ahmedabad has said that the country's net-zero emissions target of 2070 is not possible without substantial nuclear power generation and its capacity must be in the range of 78 GW to 331 GW under different energy transition scenarios by then against existing capacity of around 7.5 GW.
The study, supported by the office of principal scientific adviser (PSA) to govt, factored in four net-zero (NZ) scenarios where each of them underlined the importance of expanding footprints of nuclear power for electricity generation in the country. The scenario analysis shows that a diverse energy system would be useful in managing cost to the consumers and effective load balancing.
The electricity generation capacities considered across NZ scenarios in the study range from 951 GW to 1149 GW in 2070 with a share of nuclear power in the range of 78 GW to 331 GW. Currently, total installed electricity capacity in the country stands at 428 GW. It means the country will have to increase its electricity generation capacity by more than double where the share of nuclear power must be in the range of more than 8-35% in 2070 - India's declared net-zero target year.
The IIMA report, released by Ajay Kumar Sood, PSA to govt, on April 3, shows that India will need nuclear power generation capacity of 331 GW under the first (NZ1) scenario where the thrust will be on nuclear; 78 GW under the second (NZ2) scenario with a thrust on fossil fuels with carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS); 207 GW under the third scenario with a thrust on renewable energy; and 178 GW under the fourth (NZ4) scenario which integrates all the options. All four NZ scenarios take medium-economic growth projections.

The report, 'Synchronizing energy transitions towards possible Net-Zero for India: Affordable and clean energy for All', factored in the country's need for carbon space for economic development while simultaneously moving towards its 2070 net-zero goal.
"Such studies should help guide our development plans and strategies in a more robust manner keeping Indian interests in focus," said former chairman of Atomic Energy Commission, Anil Kakodkar in his message.
Indias energy transition to hinge on coal for next two decades, net-zero not possible without nuclear power: IIM Ahmedabad report
India's transition to carbon-neutral future discussed in IIM Ahmedabad report. Coal crucial for 2 decades, net-zero goal by 2070 requires nuclear power, renewables. Independent studies important for development plans, NPCIL funds the report.
Israel preparing for scenarios in other areas than Gaza: Benjamin Netanyahu
PM Benjamin Netanyahu leads Israel in Gaza conflict, vows full defense against Iran threats. US President Biden pledges unwavering support in the face of Iranian aggression.
Orient Electric launches high capacity air coolers in India
Orient Electric introduces new air coolers with advanced features like Aero Fan technology, Honeycomb pads, and IoT-enabled models. The range aims to cater to various needs with over 60 models available, anticipating high demand due to potential heat waves.
#110
Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) and its dedicated vertical, the Center for Net-Zero Energy Transition (C-NET) under GETRI, have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Long Duration Energy Storage Council (LDES Council). The MoU was signed in the presence of Kanu Desai, minister of energy and Jai Prakash Shivahare, managing director, GUVNL.
Julia Souder, CEO of LDES and chair of Global Renewable Alliance (GRA), and Sourav Nandy, CFM (power trading) signed the MoU. "It paves the way for a comprehensive assessment of long-duration energy storage solutions. These technologies are crucial for ensuring grid stability and enabling large-scale integration of renewable energy sources, " the GUVNL said in a statement. tnn

SAIL-MTI and IIM Raipur sign MoU for workforce skill enhancement
SAIL-MTI and IIM Raipur collaborate to enhance skills through teamwork, management exposure, and joint training programmes for selected employees over three years, emphasizing academic excellence, social impact, and industry-academia collaboration.
Juniper Green Energy inks renewable PPAs in Rajasthan, Gujarat
Juniper Green Energy's renewable energy projects in Gujarat and Rajasthan prioritize electricity generation, environmental impact mitigation, and sustainability commitment. By offsetting CO2 emissions and powering households, the company demonstrates a strong dedication to environmental responsibility and reliable green energy solutions.
6 ways to effectively protect your energy
Protect energy through self-care, positive influences, and digital detox. Prioritize relationships that uplift well-being and practice mindfulness for stress reduction. Create a serene environment and limit screen time to maintain vitality and mental health.
#111
India can achieve its vision of energy independence by 2047, according to a new study by the US Department of Energy's Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab).
India can achieve its vision of energy independence by 2047, according to a new study by the US Department of Energy's Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab).
Examining India's three most energy intensive sectors -- power, transport and industry, the study, titled Pathways to Atmanirbhar Bharat, which translates to "self-reliant India", determined that achieving energy independence will generate significant economic, environmental, and energy benefits.

This includes $2.5 trillion in consumer savings through 2047, reducing fossil fuel import expenditure by 90 per cent or $240 billion per year by 2047, enhancing India's industrial competitiveness globally, and enabling India's net-zero commitment ahead of schedule.
India is the third largest energy consumer in the world and its energy demand will quadruple in the coming decades, thanks to the rapid economic growth.
Currently, it must import 90 per cent of the oil, 80 per cent of the industrial coal, and 40 per cent of the natural gas it consumes. Price and supply volatility in the global energy markets, as witnessed in recent years, strain India's foreign exchange reserves, resulting in economy-wide inflation.
"The case for clean energy has never been stronger. India has achieved the world's lowest renewable energy prices and has found some of the world's largest lithium reserves," said
Nikit Abhyankar, Berkeley Lab scientist and the lead author of the study.
"This can propel India towards cost-effective energy independence in a way that is economically and environmentally advantageous."
The study shows that India's energy independence pathway would involve the power sector installing more than 500 GW of non-fossil electricity generation capacity by 2030, a goal already announced by the government, followed by an 80 per cent clean grid by 2040 and 90 per cent by 2047.
Nearly 100 per cent of new vehicle sales could be electric by 2035. Heavy industrial production could shift primarily to green hydrogen and electrification: 90 per cent of iron and steel, 90 per cent of cement, and 100 per cent of fertilizers by 2047.
Most of the lithium needed (estimated 2 million tons by 2040) for manufacturing new electric vehicles and grid-scale battery storage systems could be produced domestically using newly discovered reserves.
In addition, Indian industry must transition to clean technologies such as EV and green steel manufacturing. India is one of the world's largest auto and steel exporters, with their largest markets in EU countries committed to carbon neutrality and a potential carbon border adjustment tariff.
"India's energy infrastructure requires a $3 trillion investment in the coming decades, and our study finds that prioritising new energy assets that are cost-effective and clean is crucial for long-term financial sustainability," said Amol Phadke, Berkeley Lab scientist and a co-author.
"India can leverage the existing policy framework it has laid out to expand the clean energy deployment."
The study finds that India has a unique advantage to leapfrog to a clean energy future since the bulk of its energy infrastructure has yet to be built.
India's growing energy demand offers a significant runway of 15 years for the existing fossil energy assets to transition to clean energy. This transition will be important to do in concert with the most affected communities, ensuring an equitable transition for the country's workforce.
This energy transition would require significant policy support, including deployment mandates for clean technologies, financial and policy support for emerging technologies such as green hydrogen, and investment in domestic manufacturing capacity.
"We find that India will embark on an ambitious energy transition in the coming decades," said Priyanka Mohanty, a co-author and researcher at Berkeley Lab.
"However, the transition runway provides time to strategically deploy clean technologies at scale and plan for a just transition."
#112
As a precursor to the Global Renewable Energy Investors' (RE-INVEST) Meet, which is being organized by the Union ministry of new and renewable energy at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar from Sep 16 to 18, the state govt held a stakeholder consultation workshop on Wednesday.
Representatives of the World Economic Forum (WEF), as well as key players operating in the renewable energy (RE) sector, participated in the event.

The workshop was coordinated by additional chief secretary, energy and petrochemicals department S J Haider, who has played a pivotal role in organizing as many as seven Vibrant Gujarat summits. State energy minister Kanubhai Desai also attended the event.
A statement by the state energy and petrochemicals department - the nodal agency for the stakeholder workshop - stated that WEF proposed to establish a centre in Gujarat to accelerate energy transition. The proposed centre will facilitate public-private knowledge sharing on policy, financial, and technological solutions for energy transition in Gujarat and India. It will also facilitate the exchange of best practices between public and private sectors through the WEF's network.
Speakers from the WEF included Roberto Bocca, head of Centre for Energy and Materials; Olivia Zeydler, lead, strategic integration, Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Energy and Materials; and Debmalya Sen, lead, Advanced Energy Solutions.
Participants included industry experts, independent power producers, RE equipment manufacturers, startups, researchers, RE developers and academicians.
WEF proposes centre to accelerate energy transition in Gujarat: Govt
Ahead of the Global Renewable Energy Investors' Meet, Gandhinagar hosted a stakeholder consultation workshop with participants from the World Economic Forum and key renewable energy players. Discussions focused on establishing a WEF centre in Gujarat to accelerate energy transition through public-private knowledge sharing and exchanging best practices between sectors.
Adani Energy Solutions receives award of 7 GW renewable energy evacuation transmission network in Khavda
AdEnergy Solutions Ltd has finalized the acquisition of Khavda Phase IV Part-A transmission project, aimed at evacuating 7 GW of renewable energy from Khavda RE park. With an investment of Rs 4,091 crore, the company plans to complete this critical infrastructure project within 24 months, bolstering India's journey towards net zero.
GUVNL caps energy banking at 30%, industry objects
Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd has set a new rule capping green energy banking at 30% of total electricity consumption, causing concern among industry players. They argue it will hinder renewable energy growth and affect businesses aiming for full renewable usage. The Federation of Renewable and Consumers of Energy has contested this with the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission.
#113
The G20 leaders' summit will focus on accelerating climate action and reaching global net zero emissions. Discussions will revolve around climate finance, just energy transition, and enhancing renewable energy targets. However, specific details on mitigation goals and climate finance may not be included in the final outcome. The issue of tripling renewable energy capacity and phasing out fossil fuels may also face obstacles.
Accelerating climate action through higher mitigation and strengthening climate-clean energy nexus to reach global net zero emission as early as possible will be among the focus areas of discussion at the session on 'One Earth' during the G20 leaders' summit beginning Saturday.
Also See: G20 Summit Live
Parleys will see how the countries may negotiate with climate finance issues to steer the world towards accelerating 'just energy transition' to reach carbon neutrality in sync with countries' capabilities and national circumstances.
* Officials familiar with the exercise said though the exact number in terms of mitigation goal including peaking emissions and net zero, quantum of climate finance and enhancing renewable energy targets may not be there in the outcome or joint communique on Sunday, the participating countries may pledge to do it ahead of the 28th session of the UN climate change conference (COP28) which is scheduled to be held in Dubai, UAE during November 30-December 12.
* It is believed that the issues of tripling of renewable energy capacity, phasing down of unabated fossil fuels and doubling the global rate of emission technologies may not find consensus as certain countries have already raised their objections on these matters during the G20 ministers' meeting held in July.
The developed countries have, so far, not fulfilled their commitment to bring $100 billion on table which they pledged to do by 2020. It is, however, expected that this goal will be met for the first time in 2023 in the run up to COP28.

India's approach to deal with the environmental challenges through mindful and deliberate consumption under Mission LiFE (lifestyle for environment) is expected to get traction, specifically when the session will see how the group of developed and emerging economies could collectively pledge for continuing work on environment and climate sustainability priorities.
Under the environmental protection head, the collective efforts to work towards eliminating plastic pollution may find its place in the final outcome specifically when the countries have already committed to develop an "international legally binding instrument" on plastic pollution with the ambition of completing its work by the end of 2024.
"Efforts on expanding the base of different components of clean energy such as hydrogen, biofuel and nuclear for energy transition may reflect in the final outcome," said an official.
Since the first global stocktake report of what countries have done so far under the 2015 Paris Agreement is expected to be out in the run up to COP28, further commitments whatsoever are expected only after end of that process.
#114
Infrastructure conglomerate Adani Group will invest more than $100 billion in energy transition projects, upping its earlier commitment of $70 billion by 2030.
It is building a renewable energy park in Khavda, Gujarat, among other clean energy projects. This facility, which it claims to be the world's largest single-site renewable energy park, will generate 30GW of power, thereby taking its total green energy capacity to 50GW by 2030.
Energy transition from fossil fuels to clean sources like solar, wind and hydrogen will "change the global energy landscape forever", said the group's chairman Gautam Adani.
Adani Group, which started with commodity trading before diversifying into ports and airports management and other businesses, wants to produce the "world's least expensive green electron" to become the feedstock for several sectors that must meet the sustainability mandate, Adani said at Crisil Ratings' infrastructure summit on Wednesday. In 2022, fossil fuel producer Reliance Industries announced that it will plow $76 billion towards clean energy projects.
Adani said data centres that house AI clouds will be the largest energy consuming industry in the world.
"This makes energy transition even more complex and is raising electricity prices, thereby adding to the already high prices because of the combined impact of climate change and demand growth."
Adani said the infrastructure required for energy transition and the infrastructure required for digital transformation are now inseparable as the "technology sector becomes the largest consumer of the precious green electrons".

"We already have India's largest order book for data centres and are now in discussions for additional gigawatt-scale green AI data centres," Adani said. At the Crisil event, the billionaire also highlighted India's infrastructure growth trajectory.
"If the period between 1991 to 2014 was about laying down the foundations and building the runway, then the period between 2014 and 2024 has been about the aircraft taking off," said Adani, adding that "the single most important catalyst enabling this takeoff has been the quality of governance over the past decade".
Adani said the 1991 liberalisation policy by then FM Manmohan Singh marked a "major turning point". "The breaking down of the License Raj meant that govt did away with industrial licensing for most sectors. It eliminated much of the requirement for businesses to obtain government permission to invest, or set prices, or build capacity."
Hero Future Energies to invest $2 billion
Hero Future Energies, the renewable energy arm of the Munjal family-promoted Hero group, plans to invest over $2 billion in the next 30 months to boost its generation capacity.
Gautam Adani outlines 3 strategic areas to strengthen national infrastructure
Adani Group chairman, Gautam Adani, announced plans to invest over $100 billion in energy transition projects. The conglomerate aims to establish solar parks, wind farms, and facilities for manufacturing key components like electrolyzers for green energy generation.
Russia's drone attack damages Ukraine's energy infrastructure, injures two
Russia launched war against Ukraine in February 2022, denying civilian targeting. Lviv city is administrative centre of Lviv region.
#115
Energy transition platform Amp Energy India has secured up to USD 250 million (around Rs 2,061 crore) from SMBC Bank of Japan (Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation), ICG (Intermediate Capital Group), and AIIB (Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank). City-based Amp Energy India with a total portfolio of 2.7GW-plus spread across 17 states in the country, said it will utilise the USD 250 million funding to fund the growth of the company, according to a statement.
Amp Energy India provides renewable energy transition solutions to marquee customers across 10 diverse sectors -- pharmaceutical, automobiles, cement, steel, heavy engineering infrastructure, FMCG, educational institutions, IT & data centres, utilities, and government bodies.
"With this round, we are on our way to be the leading energy transition platform in the country," Pinaki Bhattacharyya, Founder, MD and CEO of Amp Energy India, said.
Rohit Nanda, Head of Equity Group - Infrastructure team, Asia at SMBC said that since their initial investment in 2018, Amp India has shown remarkable resilience and achieved an impressive growth even during the pandemic period.
SMBC is a Japanese multinational banking and financial services institution headquartered in Tokyo, Japan.
Global alternative asset manager ICG's Head of Asia-Pacific Infrastructure Devarshi Das said, "We are very pleased to announce our partnership with Amp India as the first investment for ICG's Asia-Pacific Infrastructure."
Multilateral development finance institution AIIB Director General-Infrastructure Investment Department (region 1) Rajat Misra said, "This is the first direct equity investment of AIIB into a renewable IPP. Our financing will also help the company attract long-term private capital in support of accelerating its business plan."
#116
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will next week meet chief executives of top Indian and foreign oil companies, likely focusing on geopolitical supply threats amid the changing map of global energy flows and investments in India's energy transition.
Oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday said the meeting will happen on the sidelines of the second India Energy Week, a showcase for India's importance in the global energy market and leadership in transition.
In addition, there will also be an India-US investment roundtable.
This year's conference comes against the backdrop of the continuing Russia-Ukraine war and the fresh conflicts triggered by attacks on ships sailing through the Red Sea by Houthi rebels,leading to elevated ocean freight.
Puri said energy ministers from 17 countries, over 35,000 attendees and more than 900 exhibitors are expected to attend the IEW. "I am pleased to share that this time we will have dedicated 6 country pavilions, namely Canada, Germany Netherlands, Russia, UK and USA."
"India today on the energy front presents the picture of confidence, of positive growth, of solutions in many areas. IEW is a golden opportunity for all these related developments on the energy front to be showcased and provide the platform for further development and growth in the energy sector," Puri told reporters.
Asked about the Red Sea crisis which has so far not disrupted oil supplies to India but has sent freight charges higher as ships reroute to avoid the conflict zone, he said the the conflict is a matter of concern but not a cause of worry for the country as yet.


#117
At the UN climate summit (COP28), more than 195 countries, including India, agreed to transition away from fossil fuels in energy systems. The decision text emphasizes the need to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius by reducing global greenhouse gas emissions by 43% by 2030 and 60% by 2035. The agreement, reached after intense negotiations, replaced the controversial 'phase out' language with 'transitioning away' to accommodate oil, gas, and coal producers and consumers. The outcome also includes goals for renewable energy, energy efficiency, adaptation, and reducing non-carbon dioxide emissions.
Targeting for the first time the chief contributors to global warming, nearly 200 countries, including India, on Wednesday clinched a landmark climate deal calling for transitioning away from fossil fuels "in a just, orderly and equitable manner" while "accelerating action this decade to achieve net zero by 2050".
At the end of the hottest year on record, the UN climate summit (COP28) in Dubai agreed to limit warming to 1.5 degree C (over 1850-1900 levels) through "rapid and sustained reductions in global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 43% by 2030 and 60% by 2035 relative to the 2019 level.
The first global stocktake deal, where the words "fossil fuel" were in the final text for the first time in three decades of such talks, urged countries to speed up efforts for phasedown of unabated coal use - dropping "rapidly" from the previous text after India and China strongly resisted the additional provisions.

After two weeks of intense negotiations - with oil producing nations opposing the 'phase out' term for fossil fuels being pitched by EU and small island countries - the climate talks were on overtime on Wednesday when the COP28 presidency brought a final text that was accepted in the final plenary within a few minutes. The pace of the text decision being gavelled so quickly surprised many countries as some of them could not even reach the plenary hall.

"We did not want to interrupt you, but we are a little confused about what just happened. It seems that you gavelled the decisions, and the small island developing states were not in the room. We were working hard to coordinate the 39 small island developing states that are disproportionately affected by the overall climate change, and so were delayed in coming here," said Anne Rasmussen, the lead negotiator of Samoa.
In the UNFCCC process, any outcome is adopted only with consensus of all of its members. Though the Samoa representative did not oppose the outcome, she expressed disappointment, terming it inadequate. Rasmussen made her remarks on behalf of Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) in the plenary while speaking after its adoption.
The UN climate body (UNFCCC) executive secretary, Simon Stiell, in his remarks termed the outcome as "the beginning of the end of fossil fuel era". He said though the countries "didn't turn the page on the fossil fuel era in Dubai, this outcome is the beginning of the end".
The COP28 outcome also spoke about encouraging countries to submit economy-wide nationally deter mined contributions (NDCs) -climate action pledges - during the next cycle beginning late next year. Among other key outcomes, the text agreed on tripling global renewable energy capacity and doubling energy efficiency by 2030, adopted a framework for the Global Goal on Adaptation (GGA) and operationalised the loss and damage fund that is meant to support countries impacted by climate change. The countries also agreed on "accelerating and substantially reducing non-carbon-dioxide emissions globally, including in particular methane emissions by 2030. Since it's not a binding provision, India didn't object to the methane emission clause.
"A global goal to triple renewables and double energy efficiency, declaration on agriculture, food and health, many more oil and gas companies stepping up for the first time on methane emissions and we have language on fossil fuels in our final agreement. All of these are world firsts... We have given it a robust action plan to keep 1.5°C (of warming goal) within reach. It is a plan that is led by science," said the COP28 president Sultan Al Jaber while delivering his remarks at closing plenary.
Though the outcome emphasised on energy transition, tripling of renewable energy and adaptation goals, there is little reference to finance. It is expected that countries would focus on the issue next year when the developed countries are expected to raise the floor of their annual contribution from $100 billion annually. Rich nations including the US have invariably been pushing for private finance in this head.
The outcome talks about "phasing out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies" with a caveat that such phasing out applicable to only those subsidies which do not address energy poverty or just transitions - the points which suits India for its subsidy programmes such as subsidy on cooking gas for poor.
#118
Race Energy, a deeptech electric vehicle infrastructure player, has formed a strategic partnership with sustainable energy transition materials producer Lohum. The collaboration aims to address EV battery waste and find second-life applications for used batteries. Under the partnership, more than 90% of raw materials from Race's used batteries will be recycled or refurbished.

Deeptech electric vehicles infrastructure player Race Energy on Tuesday said it has entered into a strategic partnership with sustainable energy transition materials producer Lohum to tackle EV battery waste and identify second life use applications.
Lohum, which produces sustainable energy transition materials via recycling, repurposing, and refining, in September 2023 became the first non-Chinese company to produce pure metallic Lithium by using its NEETM multi-stage hydrometallurgical energy transition material recycling technology.
Race Energy said the partnership will ensure that more than 90% of raw materials from Race's used batteries will be recycled or refurbished in alignment with the mandate under EPR (Extended Producer Responsibility) guidelines for responsible battery management.
Race Energy co-founder Gautham Maheswaran said the partnership will enable the startup to extend the life of its swappable battery modules, which will be seamlessly transitioned into useful second-life applications.
"The raw materials extracted from the batteries will feed into Lithium-ion cell manufacturing, thus creating a circular economy for EV batteries in India," he said.
Lohum senior vice president-business Chetan Jain said: "This partnership will enable us to further expand the supply of clean energy transition materials needed for the manufacturing of new batteries via recycling while easing the demand for mined primary raw materials that need to be imported to power India's expeditiously growing EV ecosystem, via repurposing."
In June 2023, Race Energy set up its new battery manufacturing facility that is equipped with a 50 MWh production plant with a capacity to deploy 30,000 batteries annually.
#119
Adani Group will invest USD 100 billion over the next decade, primarily in new energy and digital space that includes data centres, Chairman Gautam Adani said on Tuesday, as the group bets big on India growth story. As much as 70 per cent of this investment will be in the energy transition space, Adani, the world's second-richest person, said as he continued to reveal bit by bit the group's new energy plans.
The ports-to-energy conglomerate will add 45 gigawatts of hybrid renewable power generation capacity and build 3 Giga factories to manufacture solar panels, wind turbines and hydrogen electrolyser.
"As a Group, we will invest over USD 100 billion of capital in the next decade. We have earmarked 70 per cent of this investment for the energy transition space," Adani, founder and chairman of Adani Group, said at the Forbes Global CEO conference in Singapore.
Starting off with a modest commodities business in 1988, the 60-year-old tycoon surpassed Jeff Bezos of Amazon, French business magnate Bernard Arnault and American businessman Bill Gates to become the world's second-wealthiest person with a fortune of USD 143 billion.

With interests spanning sea ports, airports, green energy, cement and data centres, the combined market capitalisation of the group's listed companies is USD 260 billion.
The group is already the world's largest solar player.
"In addition to our existing 20 GW renewables portfolio, the new business will be augmented by another 45 GW of hybrid renewable power generation spread over 100,000 hectares of land - an area 1.4 times that of Singapore. This will lead to commercialization of three million metric tonne of green hydrogen," he said.
It will also build 3 Giga factories - one for a 10 GW silicon-based photovoltaic value-chain that will be backward-integrated from raw silicon to solar panels, a 10 GW integrated wind-turbine manufacturing facility, and a 5 GW hydrogen electrolyser factory.
"Today, we can confidently state that we have a line of sight to first - become one of the least expensive producers of the green electron - and thereafter - the least expensive producer of green hydrogen," he said.
Digital space, he said, seeks to benefit from the energy transition adjacency.
"The Indian data centre market is witnessing explosive growth. This sector consumes more energy than any other industry in the world and therefore our move to build green data centres is a game-changing differentiator," he said.
The group plans to interconnect data centres through a series of terrestrial and globally linked undersea cables drawn at its ports and build consumer-based super-apps that will bring hundreds of millions of Adani's B2C consumers on one common digital platform.
"We also just finished building the world's largest sustainability cloud that already has a hundred of our solar and wind sites running on it - all off a single giant command and control centre that will soon be augmented by a global A-I lab," he said.
These new businesses will add to the burgeoning Adani empire which already is the largest airports and sea ports operator in India. It is the nation's highest valued FMCG company, the second-largest cement manufacturer and the largest integrated energy player.
"The point I would like to make is that - India is full of incredible opportunities. The real India growth story is just starting.
"This is the best window for companies to embrace India's economic resurgence and the incredible multi-decade tailwind the world's largest and most youthful democracy offers. India's next three decades will be the most defining years for the impact it will have on the world," he added.
Commenting on China, Adani said once the champion of globalization, that country is facing challenges.
"I anticipate that China - that was seen as the foremost champion of globalization - will feel increasingly isolated. Increasing nationalism, supply chain risk mitigation, and technology restrictions will have an impact," Adani said. 
#120
The Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IIT-K) and the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) have signed a partnership agreement aimed at promoting sustainable development and a just transition towards a low-carbon economy. The collaboration will focus on just energy transition in coal mining states in India, including Jharkhand, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh.
In a momentous collaboration aimed at fostering sustainable development and creating a just transition to a low-carbon economy, the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IIT-K) and the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) have joined hands by signing a landmark Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). This partnership sets the stage for joint work on just transition initiatives, including the development of an innovative platform to monitor and track progress toward an inclusive and sustainable transition, particularly in subnational contexts like Indian states.
Under the agreement, the Just Transition Research Centre (JTRC) at IIT-K will work in collaboration with the IISD to focus on just energy transition.
This collaboration signifies a commitment to leveraging collective expertise and resources to address the challenges posed by climate change and advance the concept of a 'just transition' towards a sustainable and inclusive future.
As India transitions to renewable energy, the shift is expected to impact over 20 million jobs, revenues for over 50 districts and six states, as well as local welfare schemes. Enabling a just transition is a complex process that requires a guiding roadmap and regular updates on operating factors and resources. The primary objective of this MoU is to establish a robust online platform that will serve as a repository for critical data, research, and policy insights related to just transition.
IIT-K and IISD will primarily engage with India's coal mining states, including Jharkhand, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and Uttar Pradesh, to assess the state of just transition in different jurisdictions and track progress over time. They will establish a framework that captures specific just transition indicators based on the country's context.
Renowned for its academic prowess and cutting-edge research, IIT Kanpur will contribute data for the Indian states through its Just Transition Research Centre (JTRC), which is already working with diverse stakeholders in the aforementioned states. The centre's coordinator and researchers will actively participate in generating relevant insights, data visualizations, and policy recommendations.
With its global footprint and deep-rooted understanding of sustainable development, IISD will bring valuable experiences in policy analysis and cross-country expertise to the partnership. Over the past few years, IISD has been the definitive source of robust estimates of government support for the energy sector in India, mapping out subsidies, capital expenditure of India's public sector units (PSUs), and lending by public financial institutions (PFIs).

Founder and Coordinator of JTRC, Professor Pradip Swarnakar, emphasised the significance of systematic data for policy-making. "The collaboration aims to create a novel dataset, incorporating primary and secondary sources, to enable district-level, state-level, and national-level comparisons. The insights derived from this dataset will greatly benefit India's government in shaping future just transition pathways," he said.
The just transition data platform will bridge the gap between academics, policymakers, industries, and civil society organizations. Through its data-driven approach, the platform will enable evidence-based decision-making, assisting governments and industries in developing policies and strategies that promote environmentally conscious practices while safeguarding the interests of workers and vulnerable communities.
Siddharth Goel, Senior Policy Advisor at IISD, expressed enthusiasm about the collaboration, stating that IISD is delighted to partner with IIT-Kanpur on just transition initiatives. He emphasised the importance of quantitative indicators and a monitoring framework to assess the unfolding of a just transition, identify areas of focus for policymakers, and ensure social justice in the clean energy transition. The collaboration aims to adapt IISD's framework to the specific context of India's states.
The signing of the MoU represents a significant step toward a greener, better, and equitable future. As the world faces unprecedented climate challenges, this collaboration between IIT Kanpur and IISD will serve as a beacon of hope, guiding the path towards a more resilient planet for generations to come
#121
Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday provided an outlay of Rs 35,000 crore to achieve energy transition and net zero objectives and listed green growth among seven priorities of the government.
"I come to the fifth priority -- green growth. Prime minister has given vision for LiFE, or lifestyle for environment. To spur a movement for environmentally conscious lifestyle, India is moving firmly for the panchamrit, the net zero carbon emission by 2070, usher in green industrial and economic transition.
This budget builds on our focus on green growth," the finance minister said in her budget speech in Lok Sabha on Wednesday.
For energy transition, she told the House that this budget provides for Rs 35,000 crore for priority capital investment towards energy transition and net zero objectives and an energy security by ministry of petroleum and natural gas.
Earlier in November, 2021, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had pledged to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2070 under the Paris Agreement at the United Nations climate conference COP26 in Glasgow, United Kingdom.
Modi had presented India's national statement at the Glasgow summit, listing out five commitments of India to combat climate change. He had also raised the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) of achieving 450 giga watt non-fossil energy capacity to 500 giga watt by 2030.
She also spoke about the recently launched National Green Hydrogen Mission with an outlay of Rs 19,700 crore, which will facilitate transition of economy to low carbon intensity, reduce dependence on fossil fuel imports and make the country adopt technology and market leadership in this sector.

"Our target is to reach an annual (green hydrogen) production of five MMT by 2030," she said.
She told that the House that government will provide viability gap funding for 4,000 MWh battery energy storage systems.
"To steer the economy on sustainable development path, battery energy storage systems with a capacity of 4,000 MWh will be supported with viability gap funding," she said.
She also informed the House that a detailed framework for pumped storage projects will be formulated.
About the renewable energy evacuation, she said that the inter state transmission system for evacuation and grid integration of 13 GW renewable energy from Ladakh will be constructed with an investment of Rs 20,700 crore, including the central government support of Rs 8,300 crore.
About green credit programme for encouraging behavioural change, she said a green credit programme will be notified under the Environmental Protection Act. This will intensify environmentally sustainable and responsive actions by companies, individuals and local bodies.
According Jimit Devani, Partner, Deloitte India, the outlay of Rs 35,000 crore is "a rocket ship" provided by the finance minister as the country heads for its net zero goal.
"A promising step in the right direction. FM provides various fiscal benefits to pump energy transition, battery energy storage via viability gap funding, renewable energy evacuation, green credit programme, biogas plant (Gobardhan scheme), biomass and natural farming," Devani said.
In January, 2022, the Union Cabinet had approved the National Green Hydrogen Mission with an initial outlay of Rs 19,744 crore, including an outlay of Rs 17,490 crore for the SIGHT programme, Rs 1,466 crore for pilot projects, Rs 400 crore for R&D, and Rs 388 crore towards other mission components.
The Ministry of New & Renewable Energy has been entrusted with the task of formulating the scheme guidelines for implementation of the respective components.
The mission is aimed at development of green hydrogen production capacity of at least 5 MMT (Million Metric Tonne) per annum with an associated renewable energy capacity addition of about 125 GW in the country by 2030 and to bring investment of over Rs 8 lakh crore in total investments.
It will also help creation of over six lakh jobs. The mission is also aimed at cumulative reduction in fossil fuel imports worth over Rs 1 lakh crore. It will help in abatement of nearly 50 MMT of annual greenhouse gas emissions.
#122
Union Power and New & Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh on Monday met with the United States Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry and discussed various issues related to climate change and energy transition. India and the US on Monday launched the Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue (CAFMD) under the India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.
Kerry called up Singh and had discussion with him on various issues related to climate change and energy transition. Later the Kerry-led delegation deliberated on those issues with Singh and his top brass.
The CAFMD is one the two main tracks of the US-India Agenda 2030 Partnership that President Biden and Prime Minister Modi had announced at the Leaders Summit on Climate in April 2021.
Besides union ministers and other top brass, Kerry, during his visit, will also meet private sector leaders to discuss efforts to raise global climate ambition and speed up India's clean energy transition.
As part of America's efforts to engage with international counterparts on actions to address the climate crisis, the State Department had earlier said that Kerry will meet with government of India counterparts and private sector leaders to discuss efforts to raise global climate ambition and speed up India's clean energy transition.
Kerry will bolster the United States' bilateral and multilateral climate efforts ahead of the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which will be held from October 31 to November 12, 2021, in Glasgow, United Kingdom, the States Department had said.
Earlier, last month, in a telephonic conversation with Kerry, Singh had told him that India planned to emerge as a global leader in green hydrogen and the country is proposing to mandate using green hydrogen in fertiliser and in refining.
Later, the minister had also said that a proposal would soon be placed before Cabinet for approval in this regard.
Singh had also informed Kerry that India will invite bids for green hydrogen in the next three to four months to encourage viable usage of hydrogen as a fuel, according to a power ministry statement. 
#123
India will become the world's second largest economy and a net exporter of green energy by 2050 to lead the global energy transition, Adani group chairman Gautam Adani said on Saturday.
"India will start adding a trillion dollars to its GDP every 12 to 18 months - thereby putting us well on track to be a 30 trillion-dollar economy by 2050 and with a stock market capitalisation that will possibly exceed 45 trillion dollars," Adani said at the 21st World Congress of Accountants in Mumbai.

He saw India's population growing by 15% to 1.6 billion but per capita income accelerating by 700% to about $16,000 over the next 28 years from about $2,200 at present. The expansion of this "consuming middle class" will drive a surge in public as well as private expenditure and attract "highest levels" of FDI.
"In fact, India's FDI inflows have increased over 20-fold since the year 2000 and I would expect it to touch a trillion dollars by 2050," Adani said.
On green energy, Adani said, "Cooling the planet down will be one of the most profitable businesses and the largest of job creators over the next several decades. I am in no doubt that India will lead the global energy transition".
He also reiterated his group's plan to invest $70 billion in the green energy space over the next decade to build the world's most integrated renewable energy value chain.
According to Adani, India will need 400% more units of energy by 2050 than it consumes at present. He saw the marginal cost of green power headed to 'zero' in view of the dramatic and continued drop in the cost, especially of solar power.

"The ability of this zero-cost electron to economically split a water molecule and create 100% green hydrogen in the future is now certain. The combination of solar and wind power coupled with green hydrogen opens up unprecedented possibilities for India," he said.
India is the world's third largest oil importer and generates 70% power from coal-fired plants but its per-capita energy consumption is a third of global average. The Narendra Modi government is eyeing a 50% clean energy share by 2030 and implementing the world's largest green energy programme with a target of 450 GW green energy capacity by then.
#124
The state taskforce on sustainable just transition has invited letters of intent (LOI) from various experts in the field of research and implementation of energy transition to join hands with the state government to chalk out a roadmap for realising the dream of replacement of fossil fuel-based economy to renewables.
The state taskforce, which is dubbed to be the first of its kind in the country has finalised six thematic areas to focus on so that the transition is not all about phase down of fossil fuel and taking up renewables, but it also addresses a plethora of issues associated with the energy transition.
Chairman of the state taskforce, A K Rastogi, said that the main objective of the taskforce is to study the effects of transition from fossil fuel to non-fossil fuel based ecosystem, assess the magnitude of nature of accelerated phase out of coal mines/industries and its impact on the economy, workers and communities, identify opportunities in green sectors and sustainable financing, and further recommend policy intervention at cross-sectoral level to move towards low carbon pathways and green economy.
"As part of the consultative process, we have decided six major thematic areas such as energy transition, coal transition, sustainable mobility, livelihood transition, capacity development, and low carbon transition to further work upon," he said.

Pointing to the fact that various organisations, globally, are already working on these issues, Rastogi said that there was a need to bring them on one platform for a concrete roadmap for any coal bearing state, which is planning this transition.
The state taskforce convened a series of meetings in New Delhi on Wednesday in which various institutions like International Energy Agency, United Nations Development Program (UNDP), IIT-Kanpur, USAID, Centre for Policy Research, IRADe, World Resource Institute, iFOREST, Council on Environment, Energy and Water (CEEW), India Climate Collaborative (ICC) and other subject experts participated. The meeting was also attended by representatives from the
World Bank.
The World Bank on Friday signed an agreement worth $200 million with Government of India and Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) to help India increase its power generation capacity through cleaner, renewable energy sources.
The agreement comprises $150 million as loan from International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), $22 million loan from Clean Technology Fund (CTF) and $22 million as interest free grant from CTF.
Ramapati Kumar, CEO, Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED), a partner of the state taskforce said that though there was no talks of loan from the World Bank during Wednesday meeting, the collaborations with the centre will come down to the state governments finally which is working in the direction of transition.
"We have realised the importance of capacity building and would be extending our support to the state government to attract as much investment in the field of green energy is possible," he said.
As a technical and knowledge partner, CEED is providing hand-holding support to the task force in its regular operational activities and facilitating the process of creating an enabling policy framework and implementation roadmap towards non-fossil-based ecosystem transition.
#125
Punjab minister for new and renewable energy Aman Arora on Sunday urged the industrialists to invest in non-conventional and green energy sectors, citing the state's "substantial potential in this area".
Stressing the need for a "transition to clean and sustainable energy sources", Arora - who was addressing the regional energy transition and sustainability conclave - urged new startups to "collaborate in this initiative".
Maintaining that the Punjab govt stands prepared to offer comprehensive support to foster their growth, the minister said a 4MW Solar PV plant has been commissioned in Tarkhanawala village in Bathinda district to address the agricultural power requirements.
This project is expected to produce approximately 6.65 million units of power per year.
The Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) is all set to establish three additional solar power plants, each with a capacity of 4MW, totalling 12MW, in the Bathinda district.
Niti Aayog to unveil energy transition road map in November
Niti Aayog is set to publish a roadmap in November outlining India's path to achieving the 2070 'net zero' carbon emissions target. CEO B V R Subrahmanyam stressed the importance of balancing economic growth, job creation, and energy consumption with environmental sustainability. Fossil fuels will continue to be essential for economic progress.
Adani Green Energy redeems $750 million worth of bonds
Adani Green Energy Ltd has redeemed $750 million in bonds as part of its deleveraging efforts. The company increased its renewable energy capacity from 3.5 GW to 11.2 GW since 2021. Funding for the redemption was sourced from reserves, a joint venture with TotalEnergies, and a preferential issue of warrants, aligning with AGEL's long-term growth objectives.
Adani Green Energy appoints Surabh Shah as CFO
Adani Green Energy Ltd has confirmed that Saurabh Shah will be appointed as Chief Financial Officer from October 1, 2024. This follows the resignation of current CFO Phuntsok Wangyal, effective September 30, 2024. Additionally, Shaminder Singh Jamwal will become Head of Security starting October 1 and Satyajeet Ghoshal will transition to a new role in the CEO's office.
#126
Energy transition-focussed venture capitalist Transition VC has launched its maiden fund with a target corpus of Rs 400 crore. The firm will make seed investments in startups across sectors undergoing transition to e-mobility, green hydrogen, energy storage and net-zero, in building climate-tech solutions.
With ticket size ranging from USD 500,000 to USD 1 million (about Rs 4-8 crore), the VC is looking to support up to 40 early-stage startups over the next 3 years, it said in a statement on Wednesday.

"Transition VC, India's first energy transition-focused VC fund has launched its maiden fund with a target corpus of Rs 400 crore, which also includes a greenshoe option of Rs 200 crore," it said.
The Bengaluru-based VC recently received the Sebi nod for the fund and is eyeing the first close by the end of 2022.
The fund was founded last year.
In addition to investments in Indian startups, the fund also plans to allocate 25 per cent of the fund for global startups.
"With this fund, we shall ignite and amplify their entrepreneurial capabilities to develop and deploy sustainable solutions that enable a decarbonised world and solve key energy challenges," Transition VC General Partner Mustafa Wajid said. PTI PRS ANU ANU
#127
India's top oil and gas producer ONGC will invest Rs 1 lakh crore by 2030 on energy transition projects as it targets net zero carbon emissions by 2038, its chairman Arun Kumar Singh said on Monday. The firm joins fellow state-owned oil and gas firms Indian Oil (IOC), Hindustan Petroleum (HPCL), GAIL and Bharat Petroleum (BPCL) in preparing roadmaps for net zero emissions as part of the nation's commitment to deal with the climate challenge.

Net-zero for a company means achieving a balance between the quantum of greenhouse gases it places into atmosphere and the amount it takes out.
"We have done our internal workings and are now confident that we can achieve net-zero for Scope-1 and Scope-2 emissions by 2038," Singh told reporters here.
The company is planning to scale up electricity generation from renewable sources from 189 MW to 1 GW by 2030. It already has 5 GW of project planned in Rajasthan and is scouting for a similar capacity, he said adding ONGC would also look at offshore wind farms.
It is also looking at setting up a 1 million tonne per annum green ammonia plant at Mangalore.
"Overall, the investments will be of the order of Rs 1 lakh crore," he said.
The company reversed the declining trend of oil and gas production in 2022-23 and is now looking at raising output with projects both on the east and west coast.
ONGC produced 19.584 million tonne (MT) of oil in 2022-23, up from 19.545 MT of previous year. The output is likely to rise to 21.263 MT in the current fiscal (April 2023 to March 2024), to 21.525 MT in 2024-25 and 22.389 MT in the following fiscal.

Natural gas output is slated to rise from 20.636 billion cubic meters (bcm) in 2022-23 to 23.621 bcm in 2023-24, 26.08 bcm in the following year and 27.16 bcm in 2025-26.
This rise in output is due to projects the firm is implementing on both the east and west coast to raise productivity from current fields and bringing new discoveries into production.
As much as Rs 61,200 crore is being invested in 14 development and nine infrastructure projects including KG gas field and rejuvenation of existing producing fields like Mumbai High North and Heera.
Singh said ONGC has planned a capital expenditure of Rs 30,125 crore in 2023-24, almost same as Rs 30,208 crore spent in the previous fiscal year.
The company, which has 1.62 lakh square kilometer of acreage, is looking to take the acreage to 5 lakh square kilometer by acquiring one lakh square km every year, spending Rs 10,000 crore annually on exploration.
#128
In the run up to Net Zero target (carbon emissions) by 2070 and gradual phase down of coal, states like Jharkhand are going to be worst sufferers as the economy of state depends largely on coal and the social structure is also woven around mining and co-related activities.
In the run up to Net Zero target (carbon emissions) by 2070 and gradual phase down of coal, states like Jharkhand are going to be worst sufferers as the economy of state depends largely on coal and the social structure is also woven around mining and co-related activities. The concern was substantiated in a recent study conducted in Mpumalanga, South Africa and Jharkhand in India-two prominent coal dependent regions in Africa and India.The study conducted by the Centre for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Climate Investment Fund (CIF) has cautioned that in both South Africa and India, coal transitions will likely have an outsized impact in certain areas because of the concentration of coal production in a handful of states. The study analyzes coal dependency and just transition prospects in order to generate insights and recommendations useful for these regions as well as other coal-dependent emerging economies.According to the study, Jharkhand with 144 coal mines plays a crucial role in supplying coal to other states in the country. Around 130 MT coal is mined from 11 of 24 districts in the state and it contributes to 8% of the state's annual revenue collection in form of royalty and taxes. "Coal industry in the state engages around 3 lakh people directly while the number of people engaged in mining and corelated activities informally is not known.
Though it is estimated that more than four-fold people are engaged in the informal coal sector than those employed officially," the report says.Senior researcher lead, CSIS, Sandeep Pai says that given the multifaceted coal dependencies in Jharkhand, any unplanned coal phase down might adversely impact the entire coal ecosystem, including affecting local jobs, cutting state government revenues, or lowering district revenues."The central government will need to take the lead in coordinating just transition policies for coal dependent states and providing finance for policy implementation. Jharkhand has the potential to diversify into sectors such as non-coal industries and renewable energy. However, this diversification will require evidence-based policies, and large-scale investments," he says. The study also recommends focusing on agriculture that contributes 13% to state's economy and promoting sectors like minor forest produce and tourism so that once the Centre starts walking the path of coal phase down, people in the state are equipped to switch over to newer trade.
#129
The first edition of the two-day International Synthetic Fuels Conference (ISFC-2024), held at GITAM University, Visakhapatnam, concluded, leaving a lasting impact on the global discourse on clean energy and sustainable development. The conference, organised by GITAM University, the India Smart Grid Forum (ISGF), and Amity University, brought together 24 international and Indian experts and over 150 participants to deliberate on the 'integration of nuclear and hydrogen fuels for energy transition.'The conference featured plenary addresses by Dr. Vijay Kumar Saraswat, member of NITI Aayog, and Dr. John McAuliff, senior adviser on clean energy to the US government. Other notable speakers included experts from renowned institutions like Georgia Mason University, Huddersfield University, BARC, IIT Delhi, IIT Madras, and industry leaders from NTPC and L&T.It emphasised the urgent need to transition towards clean energy sources to mitigate climate change and achieve net-zero emissions. The discussions cantered around the potential of nuclear energy and hydrogen fuels in decarbonising various sectors, including industry and transportation.
The conference also showcased cutting-edge research and technological advancements in small modular reactors , hydrogen production, and carbon capture utilization and storage. The role of electronic beamers in SMR design and the utilization of CO2 from seawater for hydrogen production were among the key topics explored.It aimed to foster collaboration between academia, industry, and government, paving the way for future research projects and initiatives in clean energy. The organizers announced plans to continue the ISFC series, with the next conference scheduled for 2025 in Bengaluru or Hyderabad. The conference stressed upon the role of clean energy in achieving the Viksit Bharat vision, highlighting the importance of sustainable energy solutions for India's development and prosperity.Commenting on the same, Prof VS RK Prasad, former director of the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy said, "It is our responsibility to educate about pollution-free energy sources and ensure no further damage is done to the environment."Dr M Ganapati, conference chair said, "We have just started our journey and strongly believe India will be self-sufficient in fossil fuels in a decade and will be able to export the fuels thereby becoming energy independent, prosperous and healthy."Prof Yejju Gouthama Rao said, "Cost-effective, clean and sustainable energy plays an important role in transforming India from an emerging developed economy to a developed economy by 2047."According to the organisers, the ISFC-2024 was a crucial platform for knowledge exchange, collaboration, and charting a roadmap for a sustainable energy future. The conference highlighted the potential of nuclear and hydrogen technologies in achieving a clean energy transition and underscored the importance of continued research and development in this field.
#130
Adani Group chairman, Gautam Adani on Tuesday said his group's plan to invest $70 billion in the clean energy sector will act as a facilitator for India's green energy transition. The group has never walked away from investing in India, said Adani, while addressing shareholders on Tuesday during the annual general meeting (AGM) of Adani Enterprises - the flagship company of the group.
He called for 'reshaping India's energy footprint in an extraordinary way.
"Our strength in renewables will empower us enormously in the effort to make green hydrogen the fuel of the future. We are leading the race to turn India from a country over-reliant on import of oil and gas to a country that might one day become a net exporter of clean energy," he said.
The investment includes Adani Green Energy's plan to aim at setting up 45 gigawatt (GW) renewable energy production capacity by 2030 for an investment of $20 billion. The company also targets developing a 2GW per year solar manufacturing capacity by fiscal year 2022-23.
Adani Group, whose combined group market capitalization exceeded $200 billion, now holds a major global renewable energies portfolio, and has also made progress in other sectors in the past one year: being the largest airport operator in India, the largest FMCG company in the country (Adani Wilmar), the country's second largest cement manufacturer in India.
"In addition, we have also made entries in sectors ranging from data centres, digital super apps, and industrial clouds to defence and aerospace, metals, and materials - all aligned with the government's vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat," said Adani.
The billionaire said the group is building India's infrastructure, winning some of the largest road contracts and growing its market share in business such as ports, logistics, transmission and distribution, city gas, and piped natural gas.
#131

During his visit to the UAE, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced that the first master's course in energy transition will begin in January 2024 from the IIT-Delhi Abu Dhabi campus. He also met with UAE's Minister for Early Childhood Education and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and visited the IIT Abu Dhabi campus. Pradhan expressed his appreciation for the support received from the Abu Dhabi leadership and discussed collaborations in the tech sector.
On the second day of his three-day UAE visit, union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced that the first master's course in energy transition will commence in January 2024 from the IIT-Delhi Abu Dhabi campus. He also held discussions with UAE's minister for early childhood education Sara Musallam, and minister of foreign affairs Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed and visited the IIT Abu Dhabi campus on Thursday.
Expressing his appreciation towards Musallam and the Abu Dhabi leadership for their support to IIT Delhi-Abu Dhabi campus, Pradhan said that the first master's course in energy transition and sustainability will commence in January 2024.

During the tour of the interim campus housed at Zayed University, Pradhan said: "It is a testament of the common vision and priorities of the leadership of both our countries. The IIT Delhi-Abu Dhabi campus marks a significant stride in our efforts to internationalise India's education. It will open up a plethora of opportunities for leveraging the power of knowledge for mutual prosperity and global well-being."
The minister also visited Hub71, calling it a vibrant community of innovators, entrepreneurs and investors working together to shape a sustainable and prosperous future. He met with startups, investors, and other stakeholders in the tech ecosystem and discussed ways to promote collaboration between India and the UAE in the tech sector.
Earlier on Wednesday Pradhan announced that CBSE will set up an office in the UAE. On his first day of the visit met the minister of education, UAE, Ahmad Al Falasi in Abu Dhabi and signed an MoU to strengthen existing educational cooperation facilitating student and faculty mobility and various other initiatives.
During his meeting with Falasi, Pradhan said that UAE being a global economic hotspot and India being a global talent hotspot, both sides should work together to build a knowledge bridge to cement our civilizational connection. The ministers reviewed the bilateral engagements in education and skill development, particularly the progress on points discussed during our meeting on the sidelines of the fourth education working group as a part of the G20 India.
The MoU is expected to facilitate regulations, legal structures and best practices in general and higher education in both countries, framework and policies in general and higher education including national qualifications frameworks in order to facilitate mutual recognition of qualifications between both the countries, and academic collaboration between higher education institutions in both the countries for offering twinning, joint degree and dual degree programmes, among others.
#132
The G7 summit being held in Germany began with the leading industrialized nations promising to work together to accelerate a clean and 'Just Transition' towards climate neutrality.
While agreeing to explore options for decarbonising the energy mix and accelerating the transition from dependency on fossil fuels, the world leaders also supported strong alliances such as Just Energy Transition Partnerships (JETPs) as a means to support the country-led transformation of sectors.
The leaders represented Germany, Argentina, Canada, France, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Senegal, South Africa, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the European Union.
Acknowledging the move, energy and climate change experts have stressed on the need of increasing financing for just energy transition partnerships, especially after the Ukraine-Russia war exposed vulnerabilities in global food and energy systems. A latest analysis by Climate Trends highlights how the G7 countries have so far made negligible progress to reduce their domestic demand and dependence on fossil fuels.
Highlighting that the G7 comes at a peculiar moment in the global economy, the analysis states that the energy crisis combined with extreme weather events has turned the tables on climate action plans for many countries including India, which has a total of 236 gigawatts of fossil fuel capacity (including lignite) as of May this year.
According to it, the country's ambitious announcements at COP26 that half of its energy needs by 2030 will be met by renewable sources and it will achieve net zero by 2070, requires herculean support, especially with increasing climate, economic and geopolitical uncertainties. "As India has chosen to leapfrog from coal to clean, the country must walk cautiously and negotiate on the fundamentals of Just Energy transition by not committing to investment in the transition fuels such as oil and gas to meet its short term electricity demand," the analysis states.
It also highlights the crucial role played by different states. Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have announced plans not to invest further in coal and fossil fuel infrastructure. These states are focusing on phasing down coal power plants either by investing, retrofitting or scaling up more renewable energy capacity. "For this, these states will need sustained and guaranteed finance to fuel their transition," the analysis adds.
Domestically, India has already set up an action plan on Just Energy Transition with support from the World Bank which has announced an aid of $1.15 million.
Experts believe that the plan's success will depend on how detailed the finance roadmap for the partnership is. "Just Energy Transition Partnership offers a unique opportunity to promote fair, inclusive, and climate resilient, sustainable development. However funding de-carbonization is a broad agenda and direct funding is a pressing requirement for phasing down coal and for rapid deployment of renewables. The world bank's commitment on funding India's energy transition action plan, the recent German pledge on financial and technical co-operation, are just two of the multiple developments in recent months. The total amount and the instrument for financing continue to be the most pressing considerations," says Purnamita Dasgupta, chair professor at the Institute for Economic Growth.
The Climate Trends analysis also focuses on the proposal of US and Germany regarding a G7 partnership with India to accelerate its energy transition from fossil fuels to carbon-neutral sources. Experts say that a critical portion of this pact will focus on India reducing the number of under-construction coal power plants as well as a gradual phase down of coal mines.
On the challenges, Ulka Kelkar, director of Climate Change Programme at World Resources Institute (WRI), India says, "Phasing down coal power in India can lead to the loss of more than a million coal mining jobs over the next few decades. Younger workers will need skills for new green jobs. Older workers will need pensions and safety nets. Women will need to be able to access these training and job opportunities. And the land around coal mines will need to be restored. This requires international funding to be targeted to coal-dependent regions and communities."
That the G7 needs to put real money behind the words and ensure a clear finance roadmap for developing nations seems to a unanimous view among experts. The $100 billion a year commitment of climate finance from developed countries to the developing world has been a sticky point at all climate meets.
"As the G7 is creating a country-driven platform with partnerships, this could be a big change. However, if the financing details are missing, as has always been the case in climate, it will only be creating the illusion of G7 headline success without the instruments and mechanisms needed. Credible commitments are essential. G7 can do far better, if willing to go the financial and political distances required with such specificity," says Dipak Dasgupta, international economist and distinguished fellow at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI).
With the growing trust deficit between developed and developing economies, India's strategy should be exploring bilateral or plurilateral arrangements with a select group of rich countries who would be ready to financially support its transition. Suggests Vaibhav Chaturvedi, fellow at Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), "While ideally we want to be representative of the world, the pragmatism dictated by arrangements like the just transition partnerships will move the needle on climate action. Finally some contours are emerging, and I hope that India is able to secure a deal that gives feet to its ambitious decarbonisation goals."
#133
Murugappa Polytechnic College on Thursday opened a Centre for Sustainability and Energy Transition on its campus in Avadi, Chennai.
The Centre hosts a 'cold room' which maintains cold temperature at all times in an enclosed space, using 'phase change materials'. Such cold rooms do not need grid-connected electricity and are being built in farms to store agricultural produce, thereby reducing spoilage, and improving farm output and incomes, the institute said.
In addition to the cold room, the centre also hosts a 'dryer' which maintains a constant, continuous temperature for drying, without electricity. Such dryers are being used to dry agricultural produce, such as pineapple, copra, okra, moringa and others which fetch a higher price in the market.
The centre was inaugurated by V Kamakoti, director of IIT-Madras. Senior officials from Indian and international firms in agricultural commerce, logistics and financial services, like Mitsui, Mitsubishi, Apollo Supply Chain, Samunnati and Carbon Impact Capital among others, also attended the inauguration.
The Centre for Sustainability and Energy Transition at Murugappa Polytechnic has been set up by AMM Foundation and Pluss Advanced Technologies to promote technical skills among students and working professionals to address issues related to access to energy in key sectors like agriculture, cold chain logistics and healthcare, where grid-connectivity is not always feasible.
The centre will also create entrepreneurship templates to promote setting up of small business units. This would include tie-ups with banks and investors for unlocking capital, building market linkages, and matching business mentors to the students.
In 'cold rooms,' temperature is maintained at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius or minus 20 to minus 15 degrees Celsius, in an enclosed space for storing agricultural produce. The 'cold rooms' are solar powered and use 'phase change materials' as 'thermal batteries' to provide 24x7 temperature control.
Unlike generally available batteries like lead acid and lithium ion, 'thermal batteries' are affordable and reliable, and are easy to use in places where there is no grid electricity.
#134
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a strong pitch for low-cost financing and global collaboration on transnational green grids as well as "fuels for future" to ensure "sustainable, just, affordable and inclusive" energy transition.
"We must ensure low-cost finance for developing countries. We must find ways to breach technology gaps, promote energy security and work on diversified supply chains," Modi said in his video address to G20 energy ministers in Goa, giving voice to the global south.
The PM also called for a diversified supply chain and the need for plugging technology gaps in climate action.
Though he did not mention any country, diversification of supply chain is being seen as a reference to concerns, shared by the West, over China's control over sourcing and processing of lithium, an essential ingredient of energy transition because of its application in making batteries.
Modi underlined India's pole position in climate action by listing the achievements regarding access to clean fuel and energy as well as advances in electric mobility to set the stage for inviting participation in the green grid initiative.
"We (India) are moving strongly on our climate commitments. India has shown leadership in climate action. We achieved our non-fossil installed capacity target nine years in advance. We have now set a higher target and plan to achieve 50% non-fossil installed capacity by 2030," he said.
Noting that interconnected green grids can be "transforming", the PM said India is promoting this "mutually beneficial" cooperation with its neighbours. "It will enable us to meet our climate goals, stimulate green investment and create millions of green jobs," he said, adding transnational grid inter-connections can enhance energy security and India is promoting this "mutually beneficial" cooperation with its neighbours - a reference to existing inter-connects with grids of Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh as well as efforts to establish linkages with southeast Asia.
In the backdrop of India's bid to become a global hub for green hydrogen, PM Modi sought greater collaboration on the "fuels for the future" and welcomed the high-level "principles on hydrogen" as a step in the right direction. This is likely to smoothen out divergence of views that emerged during G20 discussions on green hydrogen.
#135
As world leaders gather in Glasgow, Scotland next month for the COP26 summit to accelerate action towards the goals of the Paris Agreement and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, there will be renewed pressure on India to curb carbon emissions.
India is the third largest emitter of greenhouse gases, right below the US and China, but before painting it as the climate bogeyman let's not forget that it is far poorer - in income and energy consumption - than the US and China.
Its GDP per capita (measured in constant international dollars) is $6,118 - about one-tenth that of the US and a third that of China. Its consumption of electricity is also far lower - consuming just 972 kwh per person per year, which is only 8% of US consumption and 18% that of China.
India is undertaking an energy transition even as it works to alleviate poverty - no simple feat. Raising the standard of living for millions of people requires investment in energy-intensive infrastructure such as roads, schools, and hospitals. People need cheap and reliable electricity to power their homes and businesses. To advance its agricultural and industrial ambitions, it will need to raise its consumption of electricity per capita - likely by a factor of four or five over the next decades - as it undergoes a transition from coal to cleaner sources of power. Beyond the energy transition, there are losses and damage arising from climate events and investments in resilient infrastructure.
If the international community is serious about helping India to decarbonise and manage the impacts of climate change, they must be prepared to pay. They should provide at least $1 trillion in financing, preferably in grants, over the next decade. (The actual amount required will be higher, but India has the capacity to raise capital as well.)
Analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water reveals the substantial resources needed for India to undergo a deep decarbonisation. To decarbonise, India would need to scale up solar power to 5600 GW by 2070 (from the current level of 44 GW), reduce the share of fossil fuels drastically, and sell only electric trucks. The cost of decarbonisation ranges from $1.3 trillion to several trillion dollars, depending on the net-zero year and other factors.

Decarbonisation is not the only expense as the Indian economy is closely intertwined with the coal industry. India will not only require funds to reduce its dependence on coal but also to transition workers to other jobs. A just transition fund that will disburse at least $10 billion dollars a year to support workers and communities is central to any attempt at a just transition. For example, India's leading coal producer, Coal India, alone pays nearly $8 billion per year in the form of taxes and dividends to national, state, and local governments, while pension obligations to over half a million retired workers cost up to $3 billion per year. If India shifts away from coal, these resources will need to be replaced with other forms of direct transfers or income support.
Then there is the cost of adapting to slow-onset climate events such as droughts as well as emergency events such as floods and storms. Analysis by leading research institutes in India shows that the country will need over $1 trillion in this decade alone, to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change by building climate-resilient, energy-intensive infrastructure in both rural and urban areas. India will need to invest in energy-intensive construction of schools and homes that can withstand climate-related events. Indians with better education, health care, and well-built homes will cope better with heat waves and typhoons. Air-conditioning - currently unavailable to most Indians - is a life-saver as temperatures rise. Roads, hospitals, power grids, early-warning systems, and refrigerated food supplies protect against the worst outcomes of natural disasters.
Even as India takes steps to adapt to climate change, rich countries are reluctant to provide compensation for losses and damage. Ongoing floods in Kerala have already taken the lives of at least 25 people and destroyed livelihoods and infrastructure. Yet Carbon Copy cites a new UN report in which rich countries were reportedly successful in removing substantial mentions of loss and damage, thereby refusing to acknowledge that developing countries like India - most vulnerable to climate change - are largely not responsible for causing it. If rich countries want India to decarbonise and be more resilient, they should put their money where their mouth is. India should not be party to a deeply inequitable framework for global climate mitigation and adaptation.
#136
Greenko is the first Indian company to break into the top 10 of the coveted listing, which recognises companies leading the transition to a low carbon future. Among other Indian companies listed, NHPC is 25th, NPCIL at 33rd and Tata Power at 78th. 'Top 100 Green Utilities' selects 100 of the world's largest electricity production companies and ranks them according to their CO2 emissions and their installed renewable energy capacity, to determine how much each group contributes to achieving a low-carbon electricity system. To assess their 'greenness, each utility is evaluated for direct carbon dioxide emissions per megawatt hour of electricity produced and a measure of a company's renewable energy capacity in gigawatts and in proportion to total capacity. Greenko and others in the top 10 hold between half and all of their generating capacity in carbon-free technologies. Together, they own about 320 GW or 77% of carbon-free capacity - including 35% in non-hydro renewables, 27% in hydropower and 14% in nuclear. These 10 companies together boast average emissions of just over 100 kg CO2/MWh. This is 85% less than the top 10 companies from 2011, the first year that the widely watched ranking was published. The need for clean energy transition is critical in Asia which accounts for almost half of global energy demand and is today the world's highest emitting region. Emerging Asian economies are still largely coal dependent with it remaining the predominant source of energy. Clean energy deployment in this region will thus be vital for controlling emissions for heavy power consuming economies and keeping their communities healthy. Though renewable energy efforts continue to grow across Asia it also requires a concerted effort by governments, energy companies and investors to drive this further and faster. Greenko has launched several Integrated Renewable Energy Storage Projects in multiple Indian states by providing utility-scale, clean and affordable energy to meet the country's long-term energy security needs. With an operational portfolio to 7.3 giga watt (GW), Greenko has India's largest operational clean energy portfolio. This week Greenko also raised $940 from a bond issue, attracting investors from Asia, US and especially Europe who typically regard India's renewable commitment as progressive and pioneering. Till date Greenko has raised $4.44 billion from dollar bonds, pioneering the green bond structure. Greenko, whose investors include sovereign funds from Singapore and Abu Dhabi, strengthened its energy transition credentials this month when it announced a partnership with Belgium's John Cockerill, a world-leading manufacturer of high-capacity alkaline electrolyzers, to jointly develop market initiatives for green hydrogen electrolyzers in India. The partnership will enable the production of the lowest cost green hydrogen, with the manufacture of electrolyzers at scale in India, within the next year, and in turn support the faster adoption of a green molecule-related ecosystem in India, hastening the energy transition that companies and countries are undertaking worldwide. The Indian company is already building capacity to cater to the rapidly evolving green hydrogen market globally. Leveraging India's ample and diversified base of renewables generation alongside its own long-duration storage projects to provide uninterrupted renewable energy, Greenko aims to deliver internationally cost-competitive green hydrogen and associated green molecules. John Cockerill is developing the world's highest capacity electrolysers (6+MW) and manufacturing facilities across the globe. Greenko' s ambitions support PM Narendra Modi's vision of making India a global hydrogen hub. Industrial green hydrogen is part of the carbon-free energy mix that India is committed to achieving to reach its recently announced goal of net zero emissions by 2070, laid out by the PM at COP26 in Glasgow. About Greenko Group: Greenko Group is the largest energy storage company and among the biggest providers of clean energy worldwide, its focus is enabling carbon neutral solutions to achieve net zero goals for corporates and countries through its intelligent energy platforms and green hydrogen production systems. Greenko has an installed capacity base of 7.3 GW across solar, wind and hydro generation technologies spread over ~100+ projects across 15 states and delivering 20+ bn units of renewable energy annually that contributes ~1.5-2% of India's total electricity needs. Greenko will deliver the lowest cost energy storage - 30GWh energy cloud platform by 2023-24, and 100GWh storage capacity by 2025. This will enable 40% of lean energy integration into India's electricity grid, the foundation for systemic decarbonization. Greenko is committed to transforming energy from intermittent sources such as wind into reliable, dispatchable and on-demand energy controlled by digitization and long-duration storage. PWR PWR
#137
Policy advocacy body Power Foundation will assist the Ministry of Power as a knowledge partner for India's G20 Presidency and Clean Energy Ministerial, an official statement said. Power Foundation is a registered society with an aim to be the foremost policy advocacy body which would engage in national dialogues on power and allied sectors, providing authoritative analysis, data, policy recommendations, and real-world solutions to help states provide secure and sustainable energy for all and to create smooth pathways for India's energy transition.
It also aims to undertake pioneering efforts in commissioning independent and evidence based research studies through credible institutions on various aspects concerning energy transition and subsequently disseminate the gathered information for creating awareness among the stakeholders, the statement by the power ministry said.
Union Power Minister R K Singh chaired a meeting with Power Foundation virtually on Tuesday.
Union Power Secretary Alok Kumar, Renewable Energy Secretary Indu Shekhar Chaturvedi and CMDs of power sector PSUs were also present in the meeting.

The meeting encompassed discussion on the aims, operational structure with regards to R&D, policy advocacy and communications strategy of the Power Foundation.
Singh directed all officers to leverage Power Foundation to conduct evidence based research studies to facilitate India's energy transition journey and promote consumer awareness around e-mobility and electric cooking.
He suggested to the Power Foundation to undertake studies on accelerating hydropower development in India; developing a strategic roadmap for decarbonisation; relevance of FGD (Flue-gas desulfurisation) technology as an alternative in meeting environment norms; large scale integration of renewable energy and roadmap for energy transition for the country in the short, medium and long term.
The other suggestions were review and optimisation of power procurement costs of discoms; investments required for 500 GW of non-fossil fuel-based capacity; issues related to market instrumentalisation; grid-scale storage, energy storage (battery storage and other options) and hydrogen economy options before India. PTI KKS KKS ABM ABM
#138
In an effort to raise global awareness about the initiatives taken in both India and Bihar for promoting renewable sources of energy, Bihar's secretary of the department of environment, forest and climate change (DoEFCC) Bandana Preyashi spoke at the prestigious Jakarta Futures Forum in Indonesia on Friday.Jakarta Futures Forum is being organised as a part of activities to commemorate 75 years of establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Indonesia.Preyashi emphasised significant milestones, such as India reaching 40% of its electric-generation capacity from non-fossil fuels by November 2021, and Bihar pioneering the development of a 'Climate Resilient and Low Carbon Development Pathway' for the state.Participating in a panel discussion titled 'International Cooperation for Facilitating a Just and Inclusive Energy Transition', alongside eminent speakers including Indra Mani Pandey, secretary general of Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC), and Prof Eniya Listiani Dewi, director general of New Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, Indonesia, Preyashi underscored the critical need for global collaboration in combating climate change and advancing sustainable energy solutions.

Highlighting India's progress towards renewable energy goals, Preyashi said, "India has exceeded its commitment made at the United Nations' Conference of Parties (COP) 21 - Paris Summit by achieving 40% of its power generation capacity from non-fossil fuels several years ahead of schedule (originally targeted by 2023). The country ranks fourth globally in renewable energy installed capacity, including large hydro, fourth in wind power capacity, and fifth in solar power capacity, according to REN21 Renewables 2023 Global Status Report."She elaborated on India's proactive steps towards clean energy transition, including commitments to achieve 50% cumulative electric power installed capacity from non-fossil sources by 2030, energy independence by 2047, and net-zero emissions by 2070. "The government also plans to invite bids and establish 50 GW of renewable energy capacity annually for the next five years, adding 250 GW of renewable energy and ensuring 500 GW of installed capacity by 2030," she said.We also published the following articles recently
Renewable energy accounted for 71% of India's new power generation in FY 24
India's FY 23-24: 70% new power from RE. Total 442 GW capacity, RE 33% (144 GW), hydro 11% (47 GW). Solar leads, wind doubles. Coal drops. Energy storage, peak demand rise. Weather, power rules amendments.
Russia renews attacks on the Ukrainian energy sector as Kyiv launches drones at southern Russia
Russia launches missile attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure, with Ukrainian defense intercepting. Dnipropetrovsk, Ivano-Frankivsk, Lviv facilities targeted, causing casualties. US sends munitions, Kharkiv hospital damaged, and Crimean Peninsula hit by drones.



#139
Just Transition Research Centre (JTRC) at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur has joined with the Energy Security and Climate Change Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), Washington D.C., to work on just energy transition globally including in India.Through a memorandum of understanding, IIT Kanpur and CSIS will co-organize a series of workshops and bilateral meetings between senior officials and other key stakeholders from coal-dependent states/provinces in India, the United States, and South Africa. Among Indian states, IIT- CSIS collaboration will engage with Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, and Telangana enabling them to access resources and connect with senior officials working on just transition in other countries.In addition, IIT Kanpur and CSIS will also host several workshops and engage extensively with the coal industry in India including with leading coal industry unions. Climate change often manifested through extreme weather events, has inspired governments across the world to move away from fossil fuels to renewable energy. As a largely coal-dependent country, such a transition in India will impact numerous people and communities who rely on the coal economy.
As India transitions to renewable energy, over 20 million jobs, revenues for over 50 districts and 6 states, and local welfare schemes might be impacted. The process of enabling a just transition is complex and requires a guiding roadmap through social dialogues between stakeholders within and across countries. The collaboration between CSIS, a globally renowned international think tank, and JTRC, IIT Kanpur, is a step toward building a dialogue with multiple stakeholders by reaching out to trade unions, bureaucrats, regulators, and coal companies.Prof. Pradip Swarnakar, Founder of JTRC, IIT-Kanpur, said, "Energy transition is already happening. We have to design appropriate policy alternatives that should cover the present and future demands of the community dependent on coal mines or coal-based power plants." Dr. Joseph Majkut, Director of the Energy Security and Climate Change Program, CSIS, said "The energy transition should be responsive to the risks of climate change, but it won't work to leave the communities that produce fossil fuels out in the cold. That would be neither practical nor just. We are honored that our colleagues at IIT Kanpur are working with us to establish these international dialogues and look forward to a productive partnership."Dr. Sandeep Pai, Senior Research Lead with Global Just Transition Network, CSIS, said, "We are very excited to work with IIT-Kanpur on just transition. Our objective is to institutionalize the idea of just transition in key coal-dependent states in India and among coal companies. We will do this by engaging extensively and working together with key sectoral stakeholders in India." The first workshop will be held in June in Ranchi, Jharkhand with participants comprising coal industry unions and coal industry representatives. The focus of the workshop is on the "role of the coal industry unions in pursuing a just transition." This is the first of its kind meeting where key coal industry unions will discuss key ideas of just transitions.
#140
Taking a step towards realising just transition, involving the phasing out of fossil fuel usage and increasing dependability on renewables in the state, the Jharkhand government has signed a memorandum of understanding with International Forum for Environment Sustainability and Technology (i-Forest). The MoU got a nod of the cabinet on January 19 paving the way for targeted initiatives and hand holding of major stakeholders in the state by experts of just transition.
Director, India Just Transition Centre (IJTC) at iForest, Srestha Banerjee, said iForest has been working in Jharkhand over the past few years.
"Working for District Mineral Foundation (DMF), we developed indicative models for five districts - Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Chatra and West Singhbhum - to help the districts make best use of available funds in improving the life of mines-affected people. Later in 2020, we also stated working in the field of clean energy transition," she said, adding that under the present MoU, funds available under DMF would be utilised in ensuring seamless transition from traditional energy sources to cleaner and renewables.
According to a study conducted by climate activist and scholar University of British Columbia, Sandeep Pai, the local district governments in Jharkhand collected nearly Rs 800 crore under the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) in 2020.
"The DMF is a levy on coal production collected directly by district governments and is meant to be used for local projects to enhance health, education, and rural development. According to DMF rules, district governments should collect a DMF of 30% of the royalty paid to the state government for coal mines operational before January 2015 and 10% for those operational after. The royalty itself is calculated based on the price of coal, with higher-quality coal resulting in a higher price. These differences result in different districts collecting different amounts of funds under the DMF," he said.
Agreeing that huge funds available under DMF often remain underutilised, Banerjee said the potential of DMF fund is huge. "We have been working in various districts of Jharkhand on DMF and we look forward to continuing the work. More than Rs 7,600 crore have accrued in the DMFs in the state in the past years. We are also working on just transition in the state," she said.
iForest CEO Chandra Bhushan expressed happiness over signing of the MoU. "We are very happy that the government of Jharkhand is keen on improving the implementation of DMF to benefit the mining-affected communities and improve the social economic and environmental conditions of the mining districts. The government has shown interest in supporting a just energy transition for which we are ready to provide best possible support," he said.
#141
India commits to achieving 50% non-fossil based electricity capacity by 2030 in its Nationally Determined Contributions submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The country's consumption of coal is expected to rise by 8% this year to meet the growing demand for electricity. However, India is also rapidly transitioning to clean energy, with non-fossil fuel sources already accounting for 43.82% of its installed electricity generation capacity. The country has installed a total of 186.46 GW capacity from non-fossil fuel-based energy resources, including renewable energy and nuclear power.
In the updated Nationally Determined Contributions submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, India has committed to achieving 50% non-fossil based installed electricity capacity by 2030, Minister of Renewable Energy and Power RK Singh informed Parliament on Wednesday.
India has made it clear it will continue to use coal-fired plants to meet the growing demand for electricity due to which the consumption of coal is expected to go up by 8% in the current financial year.
However, at the same time the country is also transitioning to clean energy at a rapid pace that is among the fastest in the world.
The share of non-fossil fuel sources in India's total installed electricity generation capacity reached 43.82% as on 31 October, 2023, Singh said.
So far, a total of 186.46 GW capacity from non-fossil fuel-based energy resources has been installed in the country as on 31 October, 2023, which includes 178.98 GW Renewable Energy and 7.48 GW Nuclear Power. In addition, 114.08 GW of capacity is under implementation and 55.13 GW capacity is under tendering, the minister said.
Specifying the minimum share of consumption of non-fossil resources by designated consumers, including Distribution Companies, up to 2029-30,
Setting up of Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Parks to provide land and transmission to RE developers for installation of RE projects on a large scale,
Laying of new transmission lines and creating new sub-station capacity under the Green Energy Corridor Scheme for evacuation of renewable power,
Government has issued orders that power shall be dispatched against Letter of Credit or advance payment to ensure timely payment by distribution licensees to RE generators Green Term Ahead Market (GTAM) to facilitate sale of Renewable Energy Power through exchanges.
National Green Hydrogen Mission launched with an aim to make India a global hub for production, utilization and export of Green Hydrogen and its derivatives. The Union Minister for New & Renewable Energy and Power has informed that this is expected to lead to development of 5 MMT Green Hydrogen production capacity per annum by 2030.
Green Hydrogen has the potential to replace fossil fuels including natural gas, either as a source of energy or as a feedstock, thereby contributing to reduction in dependence on import of fossil fuels.
The Mission envisages substitution of Grey Hydrogen with Green Hydrogen in industries such as fertilizer production, petroleum refining, steel, shipping, etc., thus reducing carbon footprint and dependence on imported fossil fuels. The quantum of such reduction in imports is estimated at Rs 1 lakh crore by 2030.
The Government is also working on new technologies such as Small Nuclear Reactors to fulfil its commitment to clean energy transition.
Small capacity atomic power plants, popularly called Small Modular Reactors (SMRs), with their unique features of modularity, scalability, small footprint and improved safety present themselves as an attractive option for repurposing of retiring coal-based thermal power station sites, Minister of State for Atomic Energy and Space, Jitendra Singh, informed the Parliament on Wednesday.
The Ministry of New & Renewable Energy is implementing various schemes and programmes for development and deployment of renewable energy, under which an allocation of Rs 7,033 crore was made in 2022-23 which was then increased to Rs 7,848 crore for 2023-24.
#142
India, with its burgeoning population and rapidly expanding urbanization, faces a pressing need to address environmental concerns and reduce its carbon footprint - specifically in transportation sector where the number of trucks required will quadruple by 2050. Since COP28 aimed at addressing the critical intersection between climate change and global health, emphasis is on the need for swift and substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions to meet the zero emissions target by 2070.
As the country strives towards sustainable development, the spotlight on transitioning the transportation sector to clean energy has intensified. Thus, there is a clarion call for a switch to use cleaner fuels in the transportation and logistics sector.
Switching to Clean Trucking
With the rapid growth in demand for road freight, decarbonisation of the heavy trucking segment has become even more important. In India, the medium- and heavy-duty trucking sector constitutes a mere 4% of the total vehicle population. Yet, it is responsible for 40% of the overall road transportation emissions - surpassing other vehicle segments primarily because of elevated fuel consumption. India has already realized the impact of logistics on its carbon footprint and is thus undertaking endeavours to transform the logistics landscape to achieve clean trucking. The government is emphasizing on decarbonization of the transportation sector by facilitating adoption of eco-friendly modes such as LNG trucks, electric vehicles, flexible-fuel vehicles and hydrogen-powered fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEVs).
From the long haul transportation perspective: LNG (liquefied natural gas) is a cleaner-burning fuel that produces lower emissions compared to diesel, making it an attractive option for reducing the environmental impact. LNG trucks present a compelling alternative for heavy duty long-haul transportation, with superior Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) and range coupled with unmatched reliability. Designed with an successful natural gas engine, delivering impressive torque and horsepower, these trucks prioritize fuel efficiency and quieter operations compared to diesel engines. Since the fuel is available in the condense the form and these trucks feature a suitable cryogenic fuel tank, they cover significant distances of over 1000 kms on a single fill, alleviating range anxiety concerns. The integration of advanced telematics systems ensures secure journeys, while the expanding LNG dispensing network promises comprehensive coverage across major routes, reducing the need for frequent refills. In summary, LNG trucks redefine efficiency and sustainability in the realm of long-haul transportation.
For the short hauls: Advancements in battery technology, particularly cost reductions, and increased energy density, now make it possible to electrify trucks, a prospect once deemed remote. When widely implemented, battery electric trucks can offer a lower total cost of ownership compared to diesel counterparts in various weight categories. Additionally, electric trucks powered by renewable and domestically produced energy can replace diesel trucks. In addition to economic benefits, the transition to battery electric trucks promises improved environmental advantages, with potential greenhouse gas intensity reductions ranging from 9% to 35% across different truck classes compared to diesel, considering India's current average grid emissions intensity.
How Large Corporations are Leading the Change
The shift to near zero-emission trucks in India necessitates proactive involvement from consumers, investors, and corporate entities. Businesses in India aiming to reduce indirect emissions are capitalizing on freight electrification, particularly in key trucking segments like parcels and consumer goods deliveries (approximately 45% of trucks) and perishables (about 18%). Major freight users, particularly those utilizing third-party logistics providers, have the influence to drive the transition to electric trucks.
Recognizing the importance of sustainability, India's Fortune 500 companies such as CONCOR, Dalmia Cement, JSW Steel, JK Laxmi Cement, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel, Reliance, Nestle, among others, are already leading the charge by embracing LNG trucks for their inbound logistics and raw material movement. Hence, these industry leaders are making significant strides in adopting cleaner and more efficient transportation options.
Original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) are collaborating with international leaders in alternate fuel green trucks to accelerate the progress and production of diverse green truck models. The swift development of ecosystem infrastructure, including supply and service networks, LNG pumps, charging points, etc. holds paramount significance for transporters considering the transition to green trucks. Notably, key industry players such as Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs), GAIL, its subsidiaries, and Bharat Liquefied Natural Gas (BLNG) are actively establishing 50-70 LNG retail outlets nationwide, out of which currently only 9 are functional. Similar initiatives have also been taken for establishing charging infrastructure for EV vehicles. These initiatives are also seeking governmental support to facilitate the rapid transition to cleaner fuels.
The Way Forward
Strategic partnerships across the supply chain are vital for a sustainable future in India's trucking industry. The collective efforts of government, truck manufacturers and alternate fuel providers as battery manufacturers, & oil marketing companies, key corporates and their fleet operators, and charging infrastructure providers will be instrumental in establishing a thriving market for clean trucks. Strengthening these collaborations can catalyse the widespread deployment of green trucks throughout the country. As India embarks on its journey toward decarbonization, the success of our efforts in embracing clean trucking hinges on collaborative efforts and a shared commitment to innovation and sustainability. By fostering partnerships and encouraging increased public-private cooperation, we will adhere to the COP26 commitment and pave the way for a greener, healthier, and more prosperous future for us.
#143
Energy transition-focused venture capital fund Transition VC on Tuesday inked a memorandum of understanding with the Telangana govt-led T-Hub and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) to set up India's first energy transition-focused startup accelerator.
As part of the collaboration, a centre of excellence was also set up at T-Hub in Hyderabad.
The accelerator programme will focus on startup solutions across key energy transition areas such as decarbonisation, electrification of transportation, long-duration energy storage, power electronics, Net Zero, and new energies.
The first cohort of the accelerator will support four to five startups with plans to expand support to around seven to eight startups in the subsequent cohorts.
T-Hub will work as the innovation execution partner for the collaboration, playing a key role in structuring and executing the accelerator programme while also helping startups with R&D and product prototyping.
Transition VC will act as the funding and market access partner to ensure financial support, market resources, and mentorship for commercialisation and growth.
IEEE, on the other hand, will serve as a knowledge partner, providing founders and their teams with academic support, access to technical domain experts, skill training, and a university network.

Transition VC Co-Founder & Managing Partner Mohammed Shoeb Ali said India's startup ecosystem faced a shortage of energy transition and deep-tech hardware startups, and the partnership aimed to create a supportive ecosystem for entrepreneurs by equipping them with the necessary technical and product development infrastructure.
"Building hardware products in deep-tech requires significant investment in R&D and prototyping, which is often a deterrent for many engineers," he said.
T-Hub CEO Mahankali Srinivas Rao said the combined expertise of the three partners would provide startups with a platform to co-create impactful solutions for energy transition.

#144
Mumbia-based Avaada group has clinched a Rs 20,000 crore, or over $2 billion, funding for its energy transition projects from state-run power sector lender REC (Rural Electrification Corporation), the Vineet Mittal-promoted company said on Thursday.
The companies signed the MoU for this investment on the sidelines of the 4th meeting of the G20 Energy Transition Working Group in Goa.
Avaada will utilize the funding for setting up a slew of renewable energy projects such as green hydrogen and its derivatives, solar photovoltaic cell manufacturing as well as an assortment of solar, wind and hybrid projects across the country.
This is the second big-ticket funding secured by Avaada after Brookfield Renewable, a Canadian fund that is among the largest investors globally in renewable power and climate transition assets, in April committed $1 billion for the group's green hydrogen and green ammonia ventures. It has also secured $300 million from GPSC, part of Thailand's PTT group.
#145
For a smooth transition from conventional to clean fuel-based energy generation, it is imperative to protect the interests of coal mine workers through a holistic approach, according to a report made in collaboration by EY, SED Fund and Ficci.
Titled 'Skill action plan to fuel transition from coal to renewable energy in India', the report suggested formulating a skill action plan to address economic vulnerabilities.
India has been consistently working at a global level to reduce emission intensity to attain the net-zero target for 2070.
The report highlighted the need for climate change as one of the biggest challenges ever faced by mankind.
"Never in the history of mankind have we been posed with a challenge of this magnitude and significance. Our actions to address this issue will impact the lives of billions along with our continued existence on the planet," it said.
While the power sector is one of the most diversified ones in the world, thermal power generation by coal accounts for approximately 62% of the total generation capacity.
Speaking on report, partner and leader of power & utilities at EY India Somesh Kumar said: "In the light of India's commitments to the environment, the country is now gearing up for the transition from coal-based energy mix to renewable energy-based mix. While the 'just transition' theme in the Indian context is an evolving one, it is of utmost importance to plan this evolution in a strategic manner to have a smooth transition, especially for the workforce involved across the value chains of these fossil fuels."
The report further noted that the economic impact of climate change is expected to be trillions of dollars which includes the cost of adaptation, loss of infrastructure. Apart from the economic loss, there will be a loss of millions of lives along with priceless ecosystems and species.
It is also expected that most of the impact will be faced by the most poor and vulnerable communities who contribute the least towards carbon emissions.
Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are disproportionately higher for indigenous peoples, and local communities dependent on agricultural or coastal livelihoods.
Amit Vatsyayan, partner and leader (social & skills sector) government and public sector, EY India said: "Skills and entrepreneurship development will play a key role in the 'just transition' of coal mine workers as the transition materializes. It will enable economic diversification of coal dependent areas and also attract investments to these regions. Only when the interests of the poorest and most economically vulnerable are protected, the transition may be termed as just transition."
Impact of the shift on workforce
Coal mines create over 7.25 lakh direct jobs and many more indirect jobs. With old coal plants and mines shutting down, thousands of coal mine workers are at risk of disruption in livelihood in the five states - West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, and Maharashtra.
Most of them are blue-collared workers who need to be upskilled with the newer skills of the hour.
Apart from the direct workers, the entire economy of mining districts revolves around coal-related activities, and communities have relied on it for generations.
India's power generation mix
The EY report further stated that while thermal energy (coal) remained the dominated source of power generation, the
country's generation mix witnessed a transition from conventional generation to clean fuel-based energy generation.
In 2019, the total energy generation stood at over 1,579 billion units. Since 2014, the energy generated from fossil fuel based has grown with a five-year CAGR of 3.45%, while the renewable energy-based energy generation has increased at a five-year CAGR of 18.77%.
As the shift from thermal to the renewable source of energy takes place, the report states that demand for energy will increase leading to the dependence on coal also expected to rise further in the coming years.
Therefore, a dual challenge lies ahead of India - reducing its greenhouse gas emissions and managing the workforce associated with the thermal sector.
However, almost 50% of the mines in India are hugely unprofitable and may soon face shutdown, thereby impacting the livelihood of workers.
Emphasising on the need for a 'just transition', Vipul Tuli, chairman Ficci Power Committee & CEO-South Asia, Sembcorp Industries said: "The shift away from coal will have far reaching implications for the country. The action plan and cost of reskilling, redeploying and rehabilitating workers from the coal sector assumes importance at a national and multilateral level as part of India's just energy transition."
#146
As Nxtra by Airtel prepares for Generative AI powered loads and expands its capacity in the coming years, the company remains committed to mitigating the impact on the environment and climate. The additional clean energy supply from the partnership with Ampln and Amplus Energy will contribute to this commitment.
Nxtra by Airtel announced its agreement with Ampln and Amplus Energy to procure an additional 140,208 MWh of renewable energy. With this, Nxtra has enhanced its existing commitment of reducing its carbon footprint through renewable energy sources annually by ~ 99,547 tCO2e.
As per the agreement, AmpIn Energy and Amplus Energy will set up captive solar and wind power plants of 48 MWdc and 24.3 MW, respectively for Nxtra's data centres in Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha.
Ashish Arora, CEO - Nxtra by Airtel, said, "These new partnerships reflect our commitment to lead India's green data centre space and fulfill our commitment to achieve Net Zero emission by 2031. The additional clean energy supply will increase our renewable energy share to approximately 70% in the overall energy mix for our core data centers. As we work towards building more capacity in coming years and gear up for Generative AI powered loads, we are fully cognizant of our responsibility towards environment and are prepared to mitigate the impact on climate".
This is in addition to Nxtra's multiple other interventions to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across its operations by 100% by FY2031.
#147
The International Forum for Environment, Sustainability and Technology (iFOREST), a prominent environmental think tank, has called for a just energy transition in Maharashtra to support green growth and green jobs and to achieve a $1 trillion economy in five years.iFOREST recently released a report at an event 'Just Energy Transition in Maharashtra: An Opportunity for Green Growth and Green Jobs'. A diverse group of stakeholders - state govt officials, industry leaders, think tank, and influential civil society persons were present.
The report, which is the first comprehensive assessment of challenges and opportunities of a green energy transition in the state, covers all major sectors that will be highly or moderately impacted in the years to come. It highlights opportunities for green growth and jobs which can be catalyzed through the right govt policy levers, and required private and public investments."The state government should develop a comprehensive 'Just Transition Policy' that focuses on economic diversification, workforce skilling and development, and investments in social and physical infrastructure to build social capital and attract investments.
It should develop regional 'Just Transition' plans for regions like Chandrapur, Nagpur, Yavatmal cluster and Pune cluster to prioritize investments and interventions," the report states.Pointing out that Maharashtra is targeting a trillion-dollar economy, Pravin Darade, principal secretary, department of environment and climate change, said, "It is certainly a challenge to achieve a net zero emission target while following the economic growth trajectory. Therefore, we definitely need transition to green energy."According to Jamshyd Godrej, chairman & managing director of Godrej & Boyce, Maharashtra provides an important opportunity for the green transition. "The coming together of the industry and Mumbai's financial power will be extremely important," he said.Chandra Bhushan, CEO, iFOREST, said "Maharashtra is vulnerable to energy transition because its economy is fossil fuel-intensive. But it can be turned into an opportunity for green growth and jobs through appropriate state policies, sectoral and regional plans, and public and private investments in just transition."Srestha Banerjee, director, Just Transition at iFOREST, said coal mining, coal-based power, and automobiles will witness transition challenges within the next 10 years with growth of renewable sources and EVs."Identifying sustainable solutions is vital for green transition as well as for environment. Resource availability and costs remain crucial constraints. However, it is also an opportunity for innovation and entrepreneurship," said Avinash Dhakne, member-secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board.
'NPCIL balancing nuclear growth with green belts'
NPCIL is developing green belts and adopting eco-friendly measures to mitigate the environmental impact of nuclear plant construction. These initiatives have made the areas greener and turned them into habitats for migratory birds. The company emphasizes safety measures, community development, and ambitious plans for expansion.
#148
India on Monday formally launched day-ahead trading of electricity from renewable sources in a move towards mainstreaming of green energy as the country eyes a record 450GW (gigawatts) of renewable energy capacity by 2030.
GDAM, or green energy day-ahead market, will unlock the market potential of green energy by giving project promoters more than one outlet for their output and could ultimately free them from rigid power purchase agreements (PPAs).
In that sense, GDAM is well-timed as solar tariffs, according to Crisil Ratings, are expected to rise to Rs 2.60-2.70 per unit from an all-time low of Rs 2 over the next fiscal due to increased GST on renewable energy equipment and proposed customs duty on solar modules. This could prompt utilities renege on offtake obligations under PPAs, in which case GDAM will come to the rescue of power producers.
For utilities and industries, GDAM will be an alternative source of cheaper power - which would benefit consumers - and a means to redeem their renewable purchase obligation. For industries with captive renewable capacity, GDAM will additionally provide an easy, transparent outlet for surplus generation.
"We are opening the doors for renewable energy. GDAM will hasten energy transition and pave the way for a resilient and future-ready power sector (in India)," power and renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Singh said after launching GDAM on the energy exchange.
GDAM will keep the market in tune as the dynamics change with energy transition gathering pace as buyer preference shifts from long-term to short-term contracts and the energy exchanges. It will operate in an integrated way with the conventional day-ahead market.
#149
In a bid to tackle challenges posed by climate change, leaders from the US and South Asia announced three initiatives to accelerate the deployment of clean energy through collaborations and with funding support.
Under the US-South Asia Mayoral Platform on Clean Energy and Sustainable Cities, local leaders will be empowered to lead municipal clean energy transitions. Meanwhile, the US-India initiative to reduce the carbon footprint of cooling devices will mobilise $1 billion for more efficient technologies. Similarly, a Clean Energy Investment Facilitation was announced to close the financial gap for clean energy projects.
US Ambassador to India Eric Garcetti said, "The new initiatives reaffirm the United States' commitment to partnering with the countries in the region to address the urgent climate crisis through transformative action." South Asia, home to nearly a quarter of the world's population, faces escalating impacts of climate change, including extreme weather and surging energy needs.
These initiatives, supported by the US Agency for International Development (USAID) through its South Asia Regional Energy Partnership (SAREP), aim to advance the region's clean energy transition, promote sustainable economic growth, diversify clean energy supply chains, and reduce carbon emissions.
Rajasthan Energy Minister Heeralal Nagar said, "Given the rapid economic growth in South Asian countries, prioritising clean and renewable energy sources is the need of the hour." Nagar added, "Collective efforts are essential to effectively combat the global challenges of climate change and ensure public access to renewable energy. I am confident that the discussions at the South Asian Clean Energy Forum will shape future energy policies." Through the forum, the US is facilitating innovation, cooperation, and investment while partnering with the countries and the private sector to pave the way for a cleaner, more sustainable future in the region. The clean energy transition will not only reduce emissions but also improve energy security and create opportunities for economic empowerment, driving progress toward global climate goals, the leaders from the countries said.
#150
C-Quest Capital (CQC), a world-leading carbon finance business dedicated to catalysing an energy transition across Africa and South Asia to mitigate climate change, is delighted to announce the appointment of Mahua Acharya as Chief of Staff. With an impressive background in energy transition, green finance, and carbon markets, Mahua Acharya brings a wealth of expertise and leadership to the CQC team.
Mahua is re-joining CQC after having managed the India business as its CEO in the early days of the company where she led the deployment of the first-of-its-kind, large scale energy efficiency program for Indian households using carbon finance. "Joining C-Quest Capital is an exciting opportunity for me to continue being innovative at scale, in order to make a meaningful impact in addressing climate change," said Mahua Acharya. "My relationship with Ken goes back almost two decades, when we were at the World Bank as he pioneered the creation of the carbon market. I am thrilled to be back to working with Ken as he continues to innovate at the forefront of the industry and I look forward to working closely with the extremely talented team at CQC to drive positive change." As Chief of Staff at C-Quest Capital, Mahua Acharya will play a crucial role in managing the organization alongside the CEO. Her immediate focus will be on expanding CQC's engagement in countries worldwide, strengthening relationships with policy and regulatory communities, particularly in the context of carbon markets. With her deep knowledge and extensive network, Mahua is poised to drive CQC's mission of transforming the lives through access to clean energy technologies and sustainable land-use solutions. "It is wonderful to team up with Mahua again, she is part of CQC history and I am thrilled that we can once again do great things together," said Ken Newcombe, CEO of CQC. "Her deep expertise in energy transition and carbon markets, combined with her remarkable track record of success, will be invaluable as we expand our efforts to combat climate change and promote sustainable development. Mahua's appointment reinforces our commitment to creating lasting positive impacts for countries most affected by climate change." Prior to joining C-Quest Capital, Mahua Acharya served as the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Convergence Energy Services Limited, a state-owned energy transition company of the Government of India. During her tenure, she spearheaded electric mobility initiatives in India, created and led the world's largest electric bus program, which achieved record prices lower than diesel alternatives making the program massively oversubscribed. Her ground-breaking work in the sector has earned her international recognition and acclaim. With over two decades of experience, Mahua Acharya has made significant contributions to green finance, renewable energy, and carbon markets across multiple countries. She previously held the position of Assistant Director-General at the Global Green Growth Institute, an intergovernmental agency comprising 29 countries, where she worked on green investment schemes in 16 nations. Additionally, Mahua served as the Managing Director of a $50 million carbon credit-based impact investment business and established herself as an early pioneer in the carbon market while working at the World Bank in Washington D.C. In addition to her impressive career accomplishments, Mahua Acharya holds the distinction of being a Co-founder faculty member of an executive education program at the prestigious Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. She also serves on the boards of multiple international entities and has been recognized in various listings of women in leadership. In 2021 alone, Mahua received five prestigious awards that highlight her exceptional achievements and contributions to her field. She obtained her Masters' degree from Yale University, further solidifying her expertise in the energy and environmental sectors. About C-Quest Capital C-Quest Capital (CQC) is a world-leading carbon project developer whose purpose is to transform the lives of low-income rural families whose health, well-being, and economic welfare are most at risk from climate change. CQC does this by providing access to clean energy technologies and sustainable land-use solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, combat global climate change, and improve the health of those in need. C-Quest Capital was recently awarded 'Best Project Developer: Energy Efficiency' and runner-up for 'Best Project Developer: Public health' in Environmental Finance's Voluntary Carbon Market (VCM) Rankings 2022. CQC was founded in 2008 and is headquartered in Washington D.C., USA, with subsidiaries in India, Malaysia, Singapore and Cambodia and on-ground teams in Malawi and Zambia. CQC has carbon project operations in over 17 countries across Sub-Saharan Africa, Central America, and South and Southeast Asia. CQC's Transformation Carbon projects have already reduced CO2e emissions by 27.5 million tonnes and improved the lives of over 30 million people. For more information, go to: www.cquestcapital.com. (Disclaimer: The above press release comes to you under an arrangement with Newsvoir and PTI takes no editorial responsibility for the same.). PTI PWR PWR
#151
Spread over three lakh sqft at Porur, the facility houses more than 2,500 energy transition technologists. The centre, owned by Hitachi Energy Technology Services Pvt Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi Energy Ltd., Switzerland, brings engineering, R&D capabilities, sales and after sales services under one roof.
It is equipped to execute over 1,000 projects a year across 46 countries.
This is Hitachi Energy's second facility in Tamil Nadu in a span of eight months, after a high-voltage direct current (HVDC) and power quality factory was opened on the outskirts of the city in February.
In his address, CM Stalin said more than 30 global capability centres have either been set up or have expanded operations in the state in the past two years. "This phenomenal growth has brought immense pride to Tamil Nadu, which already enjoys great repute in the manufacturing sector worldwide. Looking at the pace of economic growth, it is our firm belief that the day is not far away when we realise our ambition of making Tamil Nadu a $1 trillion economy," he said.
Industries minister T R B Rajaa said, the state is striving to emerge as the R&D capital of the world. "We are a leading renewable energy state and are pushing the sector further. We will probably be having the biggest storage of energy very soon for which policies are being worked out," he added.
Later, interacting with reporters, Claudio Facchin, CEO, Hitachi Energy, said the centre is the world's largest of its kind. "Going forward, we believe that India is going to take a lead in the entire energy system and in building the supply chain. India is also the largest market for us globally," he said to a query on why the company chose India to set up the centre. However, Hitachi Energy did not disclose the investments for setting up the new facility in Chennai.
N Venu, MD & CEO, India and South Asia, Hitachi Energy, said it has partnered with Ashok Leyland and IIT Madras for the Grid-eMotion Flash charging solution. "E-buses would be charged on the (bus) routes, where the vehicle stops for 30-40 seconds for passengers to board and alight. The pilot will be launched in a couple of months," he said.

ARBL now Amara Raja Energy & Mobility Ltd
Amara Raja Batteries (ARBL) has changed its name to Amara Raja Energy & Mobility Ltd (ARE&M) to reflect its expanded focus on energy and mobility solutions. The Indian company now offers a range of products including automotive and industrial batteries, battery energy storage solutions, Lithium-Ion cell manufacturing, EV chargers, and renewable energy storage solutions. The rebranding highlights the company's commitment to becoming a comprehensive solutions provider in the energy and mobility sector.
Betul to host India Energy Week next yr
Goa will host the four-day India Energy Week in February 2024, organized by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. The event will be attended by representatives from 35 countries, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate it. The event will showcase India's achievements as a catalyst for global economic growth and its transition to renewable energy. It will take place on the grounds of ONGC's IPSHEM campus in Betul.
Brookfield, Axis Energy forge JV
Global investment firm Brookfield and Axis Energy Ventures have announced their second joint venture to develop renewable energy projects in India. Axis Energy Ventures will bring its existing pipeline of wind and solar projects to the partnership, while Brookfield will provide up to $845 million in equity capital. The collaboration aims to accelerate the development of renewable energy in India, in line with the government's target of achieving 500GW in renewable energy capacity by 2030. Brookfield currently has over 16GW of wind and solar assets in operation or development in India.
#152
The government is focusing on new technologies like small nuclear reactors to achieve a clean energy transition and reduce reliance on fossil fuels. Small modular reactors (SMRs) are being considered as an attractive option for repurposing retiring coal-based thermal power station sites. SMRs can be deployed in locations not suitable for large nuclear plants and can produce large amounts of low-carbon electricity. They can be installed and operated to repurpose aging fossil fuel-based power plants. While SMRs are not expected to replace conventional large-sized nuclear power plants, their deployment depends on factors like regulatory harmonisation and public acceptance.
The government on Wednesday said it is focussing on new technologies such as small nuclear reactors to make a clean energy transition, the government told Lok Sabha on Wednesday.
In a written reply, minister of state for atomic energy Jitendra Singh said, "There is a thrust world over for a strategy to use nuclear power that could reduce reliance on fossil fuels over the coming years.

Small capacity atomic power plants, popularly called small modular reactors (SMRs), with their unique features of modularity, scalability, small footprint and improved safety, present themselves as an attractive option for repurposing of retiring coal-based thermal power station sites."
Deploying SMRs across the country, especially in locations not suitable for large nuclear plants, can produce large amount of low-carbon electricity, he said. In order to move away from fossil fuel consumption, SMRs can be installed and operated for repurposing the aging fossil fuel-based power plants, Singh added. However, he said, SMRs are not expected to serve as replacement to conventional large-sized nuclear power plants, which serve as base load plants.
Nuclear power plants are installed and operated in line with stringent regulatory requirements to contain radiation and to avoid exposure to public in all circumstances. The techno-commercial aspects of SMRs are still in initial stages even globally and its large-scale deployment depends on various factors, including regulatory harmonisation globally by International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), especially considering emergency planning zone and public acceptance.
#153
Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Wednesday released a vision document on sustainable just transition titled "nav nirman ki ore agrasar' at a function organised by the Task Force on Sustainable Just Transition (GoJ) and its technical partner Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED) in association with the department of forest, environment and climate change and Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board.
The vision document outlines sustainable just transition process for laying the foundation of the low-carbon economy.
Addressing the gathering, Singh said, "The state government believes that no one should be left behind in the sustainable transition. We aim to support India's leadership in addressing energy security and socio-economic interests by forging a convergence of efforts towards a carbon-neutral and climate-resilient economy at both the national and state levels."
Singh, however, pointed out that shutting down coal may impoverish those thousands of families dependent on coal economy. He said the efforts to protect the environment should also consider the population that is going to be impacted by policy changes.
Elaborating on the broader intent of the vision document, chairman, task force on Sustainable Just Transition (GoJ), A K Rastogi, said,
"The vision document follows a structured approach through engaging in bottom-up planning, collaborating with research partners, and drawing inspiration from best practices around the globe. It provides a holistic approach with focus on thematic areas for example, livelihood transition, energy transition, decarbonisation pathways, coal transition, sustainable mobility transition, green hydrogen, investment & finance and institutional framework to develop a cross-sectoral roadmap for future ready Jharkhand. It prioritises people-centric policy interventions and a cohesive integration of environmental, social, and economic aspirations in the state."
Jharkhand is the first state in the country to have formed a task force with representation from various government departments to ensure seamless transition of energy usage.
Pledging support to the process of sustainable transition, secretary, ministry of coal, government of India, Amrit Lal Meena, said, "Jharkhand has become a beacon for other states by showcasing sustainable transition strategies. Energy transition is vital for a low carbon economy, with coal's role remaining significant in future. We wholeheartedly support the state's journey towards sustainable energy transition pathways."
#154
Adani Group has planned to invest over $100 billion in energy transition projects by 2030, exceeding its previous commitment of $70 billion. The group aimed to build the world's largest single-site renewable energy park in Gujarat, generating 30GW of power, towards its goal of 50GW green energy capacity by 2030.
Infrastructure conglomerate Adani Group will invest more than $100 billion in energy transition projects, upping its earlier commitment of $70 billion by 2030.
It is building a renewable energy park in Khavda, Gujarat, among other clean energy projects. This facility, which it claims to be the world's largest single-site renewable energy park, will generate 30GW of power, thereby taking its total green energy capacity to 50GW by 2030.
Energy transition from fossil fuels to clean sources like solar, wind and hydrogen will "change the global energy landscape forever", said the group's chairman Gautam Adani.
Adani Group, which started with commodity trading before diversifying into ports and airports management and other businesses, wants to produce the "world's least expensive green electron" to become the feedstock for several sectors that must meet the sustainability mandate, Adani said at Crisil Ratings' infrastructure summit on Wednesday. In 2022, fossil fuel producer Reliance Industries announced that it will plow $76 billion towards clean energy projects.
Adani said data centres that house AI clouds will be the largest energy consuming industry in the world.
"This makes energy transition even more complex and is raising electricity prices, thereby adding to the already high prices because of the combined impact of climate change and demand growth."
Adani said the infrastructure required for energy transition and the infrastructure required for digital transformation
are now inseparable as the "technology sector becomes the largest consumer of the precious green electrons".
"We already have India's largest order book for data centres and are now in discussions for additional gigawatt-scale green AI data centres," Adani said. At the Crisil event, the billionaire also highlighted India's infrastructure growth trajectory.
"If the period between 1991 to 2014 was about laying down the foundations and building the runway, then the period between 2014 and 2024 has been about the aircraft taking off," said Adani, adding that "the single most important catalyst enabling this takeoff has been the quality of governance over the past decade".
Adani said the 1991 liberalisation policy by then FM Manmohan Singh marked a "major turning point". "The breaking down of the License Raj meant that govt did away with industrial licensing for most sectors. It eliminated much of the requirement for businesses to obtain government permission to invest, or set prices, or build capacity."
#155
 
India will press for a "just energy transition" at the G-20 parleys, a top government official said on Monday, pointing out that 50 lakh people are directly dependent on coal mining. The country, which is keen to up its pace of development to take care of an increasingly aspirational population, has chosen a path of climate justice and aims to pursue a balanced growth model based on the principles of Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities, Union coal secretary Amrit Lal Meena told reporters here.

"As per our estimation, about 50 lakh people are engaged directly or indirectly in coal mining activities, especially in eastern Indian states. So, just transition has to cater to that challenge," he said.
Meena said questions surrounding livelihoods of these 50 lakh people, alternate vocations, skulking, healthcare and education have to be considered while charting the way forward.
He did not answer a question on what would be India's specific agenda during the third meeting of the G-20 energy transitions working group, which began in the financial capital on Monday, or the consensus which the country is seeking to achieve.
A query on the challenges he foresees from the delegates, especially nations pressing hard for more action from India to help limit the impact of climate change, was also not answered.
He said India has identified 30 mines where the coal mining has been over and coal companies have started a 2-3 year exercise of closure.
Apart from that, India is also putting the de-coaled land to environmental friendly use, which may include creating forests by putting fly ash or using it for agricultural purposes, Meena said.
The country needs coal to help achieve the economic growth targets, and the government is also pushing forward with the agenda of higher private sector involvement in the coal mining, he said.
The aim is to get up to a fourth of the overall coal extracted by private enterprises by 2030, Meena said, adding that response from the private sector for the seventh round of coal mine auctions has been "encouraging".
So far, 87 mines have been allotted to private sector companies since 2020 in six rounds of auction, and the target is to have private installed capacity of 500 million tonnes at peak rate capacity, Meena said, adding that it takes up to four years for a mine to start production after it is allotted.
Meena said four of the 87 mines have already started production, and a majority of the rest will start production by FY25.
He said the country is targeting an increase in overall coal production to 1,012 million tonnes in FY24, up from the 892 million tonnes in FY23.
The coal production will keep climbing up and hit a peak in 2040, after which it will plateau as the country will start relying more on renewable sources, he said.
When asked about the impact of the power ministry's plan to not add any new thermal power plant beyond the ones which are already under construction, Meena said "we now have the capacity to supply adequate coal to the power plants".
At present, the coal ministry is also focused on ensuring that wherever possible, "we can reduce the coal imports" and within two years, the "substitutable" one will be done.
However, India will continue to import coking coal used in steel plants because there is no local production of it at all, he added.
#156
At least $900 billion will be required for just energy transition in India over the next 30 years, only for coal mines and thermal power plants. While $600 billion will have to come as investments in new industries and infrastructure, $300 billion will be needed as grants/subsidies to support the transition of the coal industry, workers and communities, emerged at the Global Just Transition Dialogue in Delhi.

The International Forum for Environment, Sustainability and Technology (iFOREST) organised the first Global Just Transition Dialogue to discuss policy and financial aspects of just and inclusive energy transition. The event brought together national and international stakeholders to exchange ideas and experiences on just transition, specifically focusing on the global south.
While inaugurating the event, Amitabh Kant, the Sherpa of India's G20 Presidency, said that private financing will be crucial for just transition. "Our ability to push for just transition gets impacted by our ability to leverage private financing. We need new financial instruments and revision of how multilateral institutions work to improve financing."
Kant added that wind and solar energy combined with pumped storage will be the key to lower the cost of green hydrogen. "These will pave the path towards an energy transition for India."
Chandra Bhushan, president & CEO of iFOREST said while the strategy for just transition should be guided by the country's net zero target and energy independence goals, actions should be to build green energy industries and develop a skilled workforce. "Therefore, just transition should be viewed as an opportunity for India to support green growth in the country's fossil fuel-dependent states and districts, create good quality green jobs and provide a better life for all."

Shamika Ravi, member of economic advisory council to the prime minister, said at the inaugural session that the need for an energy transition needs to be balanced with the issue of energy security. "Many of the districts are also aspirational districts and labour transition there is going to be a time-taking and challenging task."
Talking of financing, she added large multilateral banks will have to step up and provide finance for transition.
The dialogue had sessions focusing on international experience, the roles of national and state governments, policy prerogatives to ensure a just transition, and the financing needs focusing on the global south. Experts representing global south countries such as South Africa, Indonesia and Vietnam, leading policy advisors, top central and state government officials and representatives from labour unions, industry, multilateral institutions, banks and philanthropies shared their insights and observations during various sessions.
Regarding states' role, Pradeep Jena, chief secretary of Odisha, said that it is simpler to handle the technology transition. "However, fossil fuels, particularly coal mining, and the associated transport sector are human-intensive sectors. The bigger challenge for just transition will be to address the human question and the fossil-fuel associated economy. Planning a transition will require a lot of investments in jobs, skilling and reskilling. Another important aspect will be to define the differential responsibilities of the central and state governments." "Lot of partnership technical support and guidance will be required for the states to make a low-pain transition" he added.
Talking of the need for finance, Jayant Sinha, member of Parliament from Hazaribagh, Jharkhand, said that the transition is an energy transition and it has to start with coal. "We need to deploy diverse sources of capital for this. However, we also need to urgently build the institutional and administrative capacity to utilise this capital. Both financing and institutional capacity building must happen together."
iFOREST released two reports - 'Just Transition Framework for India: Policies, Plans and Institutional Mechanisms' and 'Just Transition Costs and Cost Factors: A Decomposition Study' - which provide the first blueprint for policies, plans, institutions and financing that will be necessary for a just energy transition in India.
Key findings and recommendations of the reports:
1. India's just transition framework should include all fossil fuel sectors, not just coal.
2. A comprehensive decarbonisation strategy needs to be adopted, which will involve the progressive substitution of coal-based power with renewable energy and storage, using hydrogen in industrial processes, scaling up zero-emission mobility and efficient energy use by all, including individuals and industries.
3. A phased transition approach should be adopted to ensure energy security and minimise social and economic disruptions. Over the next decade, old and unprofitable mines, old power plants and sectors where rapid technological transformation is underway, such as the automobile sector, should be considered for transition.
4. The key role of the central government will be to develop a National Just Transition Policy focusing on green growth, green jobs and the development of fossil fuel regions. In addition, the central government will also have to mobilise domestic and international financing.
5. Developing a comprehensive state and district Just Transition Action Plan will be the most critical responsibility of the state government.
6. An independent Just Transition Commission at the national level and Task Force at the state level will be necessary to design a people-centric plan.
7. The major costs of just transition will include the costs of closure of mines and thermal power plants, support to workers, investments for green industries and green energy and investment in social and physical infrastructure in the impacted regions.
8. At least $900-billion will be required for just energy transition in India over the next 30 years, just considering the coal mines and thermal power sectors. Out of this, about $300 billion will be needed as grants/subsidies to transition coal mines and power plants and to support the workers and the impacted communities. The estimate is based on a study of four key coal districts of India and eight cost factors identified in the study, assuming that all existing mines and coal-based power plants will be phased down by 2030. The money will be required over the next 30 years.
#157
Union minister for power, new and renewable energy, RK Singh on Sunday said the Centre has set a target of producing 500 giga watts of power - more than 50% of the country's energy consumption - through non-fossil fuel sources by 2030.
Union minister for power, new and renewable energy, RK Singh on Sunday said the Centre has set a target of producing 500 giga watts of power - more than 50% of the country's energy consumption - through non-fossil fuel sources by 2030.
Singh was speaking to reporters after the first 'Energy Transitions Working Group' meeting, in the backdrop of G20 meetings.

Discussions will continue on Monday.
"India is among the top five major economies in terms of achieving energy transition from fossil fuels to non-fossil fuels," Singh said. "We had pledged to produce 40% of consumption through non fossil fuels by 2030, but we have achieved it as early as November 2020. Now, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a higher target for us to achieve: 500 giga watts of power, which is more than 50% of consumption, by 2030. "
Singh said he has asked G20 member nations to come together to counter challenges posed by global warming and climate change. He said while the aspiration is to reduce global warming by 1. 5 degree Centigrade, 2-degree Celsius can be achieved.

On another note, Singh said India will sign an MoU with Malaysia to provide efficient streetlighting, during the group meeting.
Replying to a query on the Centre cutting allocation for the Ujjwala scheme to provide LPG connections to poor households in rural areas, Singh said LPG was only an interim stop in achieving clean energy. He said electric cooking is the final stop. "However, the poor will continue getting LPG subsidies since use of cooking gas is better than cow dung or firewood," he said.

He said reforms being brought in by amending the Electricity Act, 2003 is not about privatising electricity distribution companies (DISCOMs and ESCOMs) but is aimed at making them competitive by allowing more than one licensee holder in the field.
Stressing on the importance of transition of energy generation from fossil fuels to non-fossil fuels and renewable sources, Singh said achieving affordable storage of energy is critical. Observing that about 600-800 million people across the world do not have access to energy, he said energy transition cannot be achieved without ensuring energy access to all and efficient energy storage. He said the ongoing group meeting will focus on two major objectives: Energy access and energy security.
While stressing on energy transition, Singh admitted the dependence on fossil fuel such as coal is inevitable till efficient means of generation from non-fossil fuel and storage is achieved
#158
IndianOil on Friday laid out a Rs 4 lakh-crore roadmap for becoming a '360-degree' energy company by pushing energy transition projects along with expansion of refining and petrochemicals capacities.
"As India's energy custodians, your company has crafted a clear roadmap to drive India's energy destiny. To fuel the rising energy demand of an ascendant India, we are committed to increasing our share in India's energy pie from the current 9% to around 12.5% by 2050," chairman Shrikant Madhav Vaidya told shareholders at the AGM.

The company will spend Rs 1 lakh crore on expanding refining capacity and Rs 2.4 lakh crore on projects for achieving net-zero carbon emissions from its operations. Another Rs 60,000 crore to be spent on building a petrochemical complex at Paradip in Odisha.
IndianOil is leveraging varied energy pathways that will establish it "as a 360-degree energy company," he said. "We are well-aligned with the need to ensure equitable energy access and sustainable transition." The country's largest refiner, which controls 40% of the fuel retail market has set a 2046 net-zero target.
"The Indian economy is surging ahead, aiming for the $5 trillion mark by 2025. Reflecting India's robust economic growth, the latest outlook from the International Energy Agency has pegged India's energy demand to go up from the current 5 million barrels per day (mbpd) to 7 mbpd by 2030, and about 9 mbpd by 2040," Vaidya said.
Meeting this demand would require more investment in strengthening traditional fuel business while navigating the energy transition pathway, he said. The investment in refining will expand the capacity by 33% to 107 million tonnes per annum soon. The expansion includes a new 9-million tonnes-per-annum oil refinery at Nagapattinam in Tamil Nadu.

The energy transition investments will go towards producing green hydrogen to replace grey hydrogen from fossil fuels currently used in refineries, renewable energy capacity addition, biofuels and carbon offset. The plan also include charging network and battery swap for electric vehicles.
Petrochemical integration, which will help convert crude into chemicals that are building blocks for a variety of products ranging from plastics to paints and cosmetics, "can potentially offset business uncertainties and amplify the value of every hydrocarbon molecule," he said.
IOC Board, he said, has accorded Stage-1 approval for the setting up of Paradip petrochemical complex in Odisha at an estimated cost of over Rs 61,000 crore. This will be IOC's single-largest investment at a location.
The company is collaborating with Italy's Snam to explore the possibility of converting the existing natural gas pipelines for hydrogen transportation.
Vaidya said the company continues to expand its retail network and has acquired sites to develop wayside amenities (WSA) on the Delhi-Mumbai expressway.
#159
Reliance Industries' strong cash flow generation in the 'best in class' old energy business can fund the capex of the new energy business and in turn drive one of the fastest and most profitable net-zero transitions by 2035 amongst large energy companies, Goldman Sachs has said.
Billionaire Mukesh Ambani in 2020 set a 2035 target for Reliance, which operates the world's largest single-location oil refining complex and also has an array of petrochemical units, to turn net carbon zero by 2035.

The company has already spent $1.5 billion in acquisitions to lay grounds for its new energy forays that include solar, battery and hydrogen. The carbon savings on these are to offset emissions from oil and chemical businesses.
In an April 10 note, Goldman Sachs said Reliance is adopting a manufacturing approach to net zero emissions with a hyper integrated model spanning solar, battery and hydrogen and a focus on a net-zero supply chain.
"RIL's energy business is best in class, in our view, with the highest complexity globally and the lowest cost structure driving stable and higher margin capture versus peers," it said.
This helps the firm to earn higher refining margins over the industry benchmark.
"Alongside refining, we also expect (oil and gas) exploration and production (E&P) to drive the next leg of growth for the energy segment, as we estimate E&P EBITDA of $2-2.6 billion in FY23/24 versus $35 million in FY21 driven by rising domestic gas production and more than doubling of domestic gas prices," it said.

While for petchem, margins are expected to trough in the current quarter and a recovery ahead led by economic run cuts from higher-cost North Asia crackers and likely underperformance of ethane prices to oil prices.
"We believe RIL's investment in new energy can be fully funded by internal cash generation from their old energy business (oil-to-chemical) and in turn, could drive one of the fastest net-zero target (2035) amongst large energy value chain companies," Goldman said.
It forecast EBITDA and free-cash-flow generation of $35 billion and $4 billion respectively over FY22 to FY24 from RIL's old energy business as compared to $10 billion capex announced for New Energy.
On its new energy strategy, the brokerage said RIL is planning to manufacture polysilicon, wafers, cells, modules, EV and grid storage batteries, elelctrolyzer, and fuel cells.
"We see RIL as India's largest greenabler with the company's total projected outlay of $10 billion over the next three years. RIL has already spent $1.5 billion to acquire technologies across the solar battery and hydrogen ecosystems," it said.
It saw significant expansion in the market for solar, battery and hydrogen manufacturing globally as well as in India and expected RIL to generate EBITDA of $3.6-12.2 billion by FY30 & FY40.
"We value RIL's new energy segment at $30/48 billion in our base and bull case respectively," it said. "The hyper integrated model can position RIL as one of the lowest cost green hydrogen producers with RIL targeting costs at around $1 per kg by end of this decade."
For consumer-facing businesses of Reliance, Goldman Sachs forecast a compounded annual growth rate of 29 per cent in EBITDA for telecom between FY22-25 and a 43 per cent rise in retail EBITDA.
"While RIL is already the market leader in the telecom business, we expect market share wins to compound rising penetration for organized retail and e-commerce business.
"We believe RIL's existing dominance in telecom and offline retail, combined with its partnership and the online traffic dominance of Facebook, can create the fastest-growing internet platform in India," it said.
Within e-commerce, it forecast RIL's online GMV will reach $35 billion in FY25 with a 31 per cent market share.
#160
Union Minister Bhagwanth Khuba on Tuesday stressed the need for the energy transition in view of rising demand, which can eventually help create 3.2 million jobs by 2050. The minister of state for new & renewable energy was speaking at a curtain raiser event for the third edition of Hybrid Conference & Digital Exhibition on 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat - Making India a Global Manufacturing Hub for Renewable Energy' organised by industry body CII.

"Energy transition is an important step to cater to the increasing demand and can help the economy by creating jobs, which is estimated to employ 3.2 million people by 2050," Khuba said.
The transition will help reduce the dependence on imported fuel, which will improve trade balance and cut the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, he noted.
According to the minister, economic growth, increasing prosperity, a growing rate of urbanisation and rising per capita energy consumption are the key contributors to increasing demand for energy in the country.
"With the global economy recovering in the post-pandemic period, I urge all of you to embrace this opportunity to redefine the global supply chain and work towards making India a net energy exporter," Khuba noted.
Participating in the event, Ambassador of Brazil to India, Andre Aranha Correa do Lago stated that Brazil looks toward India as a potential manufacturing export partner for the solar panel as it aims to install 52 GW of solar.

He suggested that India may reap the benefits of the Brazilian experience with ethanol fuel to build and boost its own industry.
The country records the largest proportion of ethanol consumption in its transport matrix. And about 85 per cent of the Brazilian fleet are on flex-fuel.
Minister Counsellor, Embassy of Kingdom of Denmark, stated that green hydrogen is emerging as one the most promising propositions across the world to move towards green fuels.
India and Denmark have agreed to partner for development programmes for green hydrogen and can together decarbonise the economy, he noted.
Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are the partner states for the conference and exhibition, while Denmark, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Brazil and Japan are partner countries.
During the conference, a knowledge paper on manufacturing for the global market will be launched. It will focus on wind, solar biomass, hydrogen, storage and distributing renewable energy systems. PTI KKS KKS BAL BAL
#161
Tech giants like Apple, Google and Microsoft are working to become carbon neutral in their operations by 2030. But as the next-gen AI technology grows, offices and data centres are becoming more energy-hungry. As per a report published last year, by 2027 AI servers may use between 85 to 134 terawatt hours (Twh) annually - which approximately equal to what Argentina, the Netherlands and Sweden each use in a year.
To solve this problem, these companies have been pushing for nuclear energy as a source to power their AI tech.
"If you were to integrate large language models, GPT-style models into search engines, it's going to cost five times as much environmentally as standard search," Sarah Myers West, managing director of the AI Now Institute, a research group focused on the social impacts of AI, recently told CNBC.
Why nuclear energy and its limitations
Nuclear energy is seen as an alternative to fossil fuels to meet the rising demands of energy-guzzling data centres. One of the advantages of nuclear energy is that it doesn't emit greenhouse gases, one of the major reasons for global warming. There are two ways to generate nuclear energy: Fission and Fusion.
 fission, the nucleus of an atom splits into two or more smaller nuclei whereas in fusion, the nuclei of atoms combine while releasing energy. However, fission produces radioactive residue which is dangerous and requires proper disposal. There have also been debates on the uranium supply chain for producing nuclear energy.
Microsoft's nuclear-powered AI ambitions
Microsoft has hired Archie Manoharan as a director of nuclear technologies. She is tasked to oversee a program to develop small-scale atomic reactors - as an alternative to fossil fuels - to power the company's datacenters up and running.
Last year, Microsoft agreed to buy power from Helion starting in 2028. Microsoft signed a deal last summer with Constellation, a top nuclear power plant operator, to add nuclear-generated electricity to its Virginia data centers.
Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has also been a backer of the use of nuclear energy to keep the lights on. Recently in an interview, he was enquired about the question that he would ask a time traveller.
"How are you generating energy? Is it fusion or fission or some unexpected thing?" he said, he would ask. Gates has touted both of them as promising clean energy sources, and he co-founded nuclear energy startup TerraPower in 2006.
A similar sentiment runs with OpenAI CEO Sam Altman. He said that an energy breakthrough is necessary for future AI to run models efficiently. At the World Economic Forum's annual meeting in Davos, Altman said that future AI will consume vastly more power than people have expected.
He pointed out climate-friendly sources of energy including nuclear fusion or cheaper solar power, saying these are the way forward for AI.
In 2022, Google also invested in a nuclear fusion startup. In late 2021, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was among various other investors who raised over $130 million for Canadian nuclear company General Fusion.
#162
The United States is lagging behind China by up to 15 years in the development of advanced nuclear power technology, primarily due to Beijing's advantage to its state-backed approach to technology and extensive financing, as per a report released by the Information Technology & Innovation Foundation based in Washington.
"China's rapid deployment of ever-more modern nuclear power plants over time produces significant scale economies and learning-by-doing effects, and this suggests that Chinese enterprises will gain an advantage at incremental innovation in this sector going forward," the report states.

Although the United States possesses the highest number of nuclear power plants, and the Biden administration considers nuclear energy crucial in combating climate change, no new nuclear reactors are currently being built in the country.
The last two large plants in Georgia, which came online in 2023 and 2024, were billions of dollars over budget and years behind schedule. Additionally, a high-tech plant that was planned to be built at a U.S. lab was canceled last year.
China, however, currently has 27 nuclear reactors under construction, with an average construction timeline of approximately seven years, which is significantly faster than other countries.
China's state-owned banks offer loans with interest rates as low as 1.4%, significantly lower than those available in Western economies. This benefits China's nuclear power industry allowing it to dominate sectors such as renewable power and electric vehicles.

The world's first fourth-generation high-temperature gas-cooled reactor came online at Shidao Bay In December last year. The China Nuclear Energy Association claims that the project involved the development of more than 2,200 sets of "world-first equipment" with a total localization rate of domestically produced materials of 93.4%.
However, China's nuclear industry has not been without challenges. The China Nuclear Energy Association has warned of a severe glut in nuclear component production and "excessive competition" driving down prices and causing losses.
Stephen Ezell, the report's author, suggests that if the United States is serious about nuclear power, it should develop a robust national strategy that includes increased investment in research and development, identifying and accelerating promising technologies, and supporting the development of a skilled workforce.
Ezell believes that "while America is behind, it can certainly catch up technologically." However, the US. department of energy did not comment on the report.
#163
Governments at the UN climate summit in Dubai are announcing plans to tackle rising emissions. Over 110 countries are expected to support a pledge to triple renewable energy capacity by 2030. Additionally, more than 20 nations have signed a declaration aiming to triple nuclear power capacity by 2050. Philanthropic institutions, including the Bezos Earth Fund and Bloomberg Philanthropies, will invest $450 million to help countries develop national plans to address methane emissions.
Governments lined up a slew of energy announcements on Saturday at the UN climate summit in Dubai, where countries are under pressure to come up with plans to halt the non-stop rise in planet-warming emissions.
A pledge to triple the world's renewable energy capacity by 2030 is poised to win support from more than 110 countries on Saturday, with some pushing for the final agreement from the COP28 summit to include it as a global goal.

The European Union, United States and COP28 host the United Arab Emirates have been rallying support for the pledge, with the idea that boosting renewable capacity will help countries move away from polluting fossil fuels.
"More than 110 countries have joined" the pledge already, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told the COP28 summit on Thursday. "I call now on all of us to include these targets in the final COP decision."
Whether governments and companies will rally the huge investments needed to hit the goal is an open question.
Clean energy deployments including solar and wind power projects have surged in recent years. But rising prices for materials, labour constraints and supply chain disruptions have forced project delays and cancellations in recent months, costing developers like Orsted and BP billions of dollars in writedowns.

Getting the deal into the final UN climate summit decision would require consensus among the nearly 200 countries present. While China and India have signalled support for tripling renewable energy by 2030, neither has confirmed it would back the overall pledge - which pairs the ramp-up in clean power with a reduction in fossil fuel use.
South Africa, Vietnam, Australia, Japan, Canada, Chile and Barbados are among the countries already on board, officials told Reuters.
Nuclear nudge
More than 20 nations signed a declaration on Saturday aiming to triple nuclear power capacity by 2050, with US climate envoy John Kerry saying the world cannot get to "net zero" without building new reactors.
"We are not making the argument that this is absolutely going to be the sweeping alternative to every other energy source," Kerry said during a launch ceremony at COP28.
"But ... you can't get to net-zero 2050 without some nuclear, just as you can't get there without some use of carbon capture, utilisation and storage," Kerry said.
Global nuclear capacity now stands at 370 gigawatts, with 31 countries running reactors. Tripling that capacity by 2050 would require a significant scaling up in new approvals - and finance.
Saturday's declaration, signed by France, Belgium, Britain and South Korea, also commits the countries to taking action to mobilise investment for the sector.
Phase out?
A central decision facing nations at COP28 is whether to agree, for the first time, to gradually "phase out" global consumption of fossil fuels.
Burning coal, oil and gas to produce energy is the main cause of climate change.
A draft of the renewable energy pledge, first reported by Reuters last month, called for "the phase down of unabated coal power" and an end to the financing of new coal-fired power plants.
France said it would rally a group of nations to ask the OECD to measure the climate and financial risks attached to investing in new coal assets, to deter private financiers from backing projects.
Coal users Kosovo and the Dominican Republic also agreed to develop plans to phase out their coal-fuelled power.
Tripling clean sources like wind and solar, along with doubling energy efficiency savings, would be enough to cover 85% of the fossil fuel reductions needed this decade to meet global climate goals, according to an analysis by think tank Ember.
The goals will add to pressure on wealthy nations and international financial institutions to unleash the massive investments needed to hit 11,000 gigawatts of renewable energy by 2030 - in particular, by reducing the high cost of capital that has stymied renewable energy projects in Africa and other developing nations.
"The mismatch still exists between our potentiality and our limitations to attract investment," said Najib Ahmed, a consultant at Somalia's climate ministry.
Africa has received just 2% of global investments in renewable energy over the last two decades, the International Renewable Energy Agency said.
Methane emissions
While many of Saturday's expected announcements centred around sourcing power into the future, nearly a dozen deep-pocketed philanthropic institutions set their sights on one of the key climate pollutants - methane emissions.
The philanthropic groups, which include the Bezos Earth Fund, Bloomberg Philanthropies and the Sequoia Climate Foundation, said they would invest $450 million over the next three years to help countries launch national plans for tackling methane, the second-biggest cause of climate change after carbon dioxide.
The United States, UAE and China are also expected to make announcements tied to raising more finance toward the effort.
#164
Investment in clean energy technologies is significantly outpacing spending on fossil fuels as affordability and security concerns triggered by the global energy crisis strengthen the momentum behind more sustainable options, according to new International Energy Agency (IEA) report World Energy Investment report, released on Thursday.
About USD 2.8 trillion is set to be invested globally in energy in 2023, of which more than USD 1.7 trillion is expected to go to clean technologies - including renewables, electric vehicles, nuclear power, grids, storage, low-emissions fuels, efficiency improvements and heat pumps - according to the IEA's latest World Energy Investment report.
The remainder, slightly more than USD 1 trillion, is going to coal, gas and oil.
Annual clean energy investment is expected to rise by 24% between 2021 and 2023, driven by renewables and electric vehicles, compared with a 15% rise in fossil fuel investment over the same period. But more than 90% of this increase comes from advanced economies and China, presenting a serious risk of new dividing lines in global energy if clean energy transitions don't pick up elsewhere.
"Clean energy is moving fast - faster than many people realise. This is clear in the investment trends, where clean technologies are pulling away from fossil fuels," said IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol. "For every dollar invested in fossil fuels, about 1.7 dollars are now going into clean energy. Five years ago, this ratio was one-to-one. One shining example is investment in solar, which is set to overtake the amount of investment going into oil production for the first time", he added.
Led by solar, low-emissions electricity technologies are expected to account for almost 90% of investment in power generation. Consumers are also investing in more electrified end-uses. Global heat pump sales have seen double-digit annual growth since 2021. Electric vehicle sales are expected to leap by a third this year after already surging in 2022.
Clean energy investments have been boosted by a variety of factors in recent years, including periods of strong economic growth and volatile fossil fuel prices that raised concerns about energy security, especially following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Enhanced policy support through major actions like the
US Inflation Reduction Act and initiatives in Europe, Japan, China and elsewhere have also played a role.
Spending on upstream oil and gas is expected to rise by 7% in 2023, taking it back to 2019 levels. The few oil companies that are investing more than before the Covid-19 pandemic are mostly large national oil companies in the Middle East. Many fossil fuel producers made record profits last year because of higher fuel prices, but the majority of this cash flow has gone to dividends, share buybacks and debt repayment - rather than back into traditional supply.
Nonetheless, the expected rebound in fossil fuel investment means it is set to rise in 2023 to more than double the levels needed in 2030 in the IEA's Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario. Global coal demand reached an all-time high in 2022, and coal investment this year is on course to reach nearly six times the levels envisaged in 2030 in the Net Zero Scenario.
The oil and gas industry's capital spending on low-emissions alternatives such as clean electricity, clean fuels and carbon capture technologies was less than 5% of its upstream spending in 2022. That level was little changed from last year - though the share is higher for some of the larger European companies.
The biggest shortfalls in clean energy investment are in emerging and developing economies. There are some bright spots, such as dynamic investments in solar in India and in renewables in Brazil and parts of the Middle East. However, investment in many countries is being held back by factors including higher interest rates, unclear policy frameworks and market designs, weak grid infrastructure, financially strained utilities, and a high cost of capital. Much more needs to be done by the international community, especially to drive investment in lower-income economies, where the private sector has been reluctant to venture.
#165
Governments around the world have earmarked almost $ 2 trillion in direct investment support for clean energy since 2020, a new International Energy Agency (IEA) report revealed.The first edition of the report, State of Energy Policy 2024, said this is almost triple the amount committed following the 2007-08 financial crisis. The report found that around 80 per cent of direct government spending allocated was in China, the European Union and the United States.Government support and incentives for clean energy technologies have reached new highs as policymakers place renewed focus on energy security in the wake of multiple crises in recent years, according to the report.Domestic manufacturing incentives for clean energy are one area of public investment that continues to grow substantially, accounting for almost 10 per cent of total government spending since the beginning of the decade, with low-emissions vehicles, hydrogen and batteries receiving the largest allocations. At the consumer level, the report finds that the cost of short-term government support totalled $ 940 billion at the height of the global energy crisis, the report noted.
"The unprecedented level of policy and investment support for clean energy is a recognition that these technologies not only reduce emissions but help safeguard energy security," said Laura Cozzi, IEA Director of Sustainability, Technology and Outlooks. "The increase in trade policies and domestic manufacturing incentives also signals that clean energy is becoming central in industrial policies."Energy performance standards are another area where policy intervention has grown significantly in recent years. In 2023 alone, 35 countries - representing 20 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions - passed new energy performance regulations.The first edition of the report provides the most comprehensive and up-to-date global picture of energy policies by country and sector, highlighting the most substantial changes in the past 12 months. This includes a publicly available repository - the Energy Policy Inventory - which contains over 5 000 energy-related policies worldwide across areas such as government spending, regulation and trade.
#166
Larsen & Toubro (L&T) has partnered with US-based Clean Core Thorium Energy (CCTE) to provide clean energy solutions worldwide, the company announced on Friday. This collaboration aims to accelerate the global use of nuclear power, especially in developing countries that need more carbon-free electricity for growth.
L&T said in a BSE filing that it signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to work with CCTE on delivering clean energy solutions using CCTE's patented ANEEL (Advanced Nuclear Energy for Enriched Life) fuel.
ANEEL, a nuclear fuel that combines thorium with high-assay low-enriched uranium, is designed for pressurized heavy water reactors like CANDU (Canadian deuterium-uranium) reactors. It can lower operating costs, reduce waste by over 85 per cent, and improve safety with its Accident Tolerant Fuel properties.
The fuel also supports energy security by encouraging thorium's large-scale use and reducing uranium consumption.
L&T added that ANEEL fuel will promote clean energy, non-proliferation, safety, decarbonization of hard-to-abate industries, and support a circular economy.
Anil Parab, whole-time director & senior executive vice president of Heavy Engineering and L&T Valves, said, "With growing global demand for nuclear energy, we're identifying new ways to offer 'One Stop Solutions' to customers. Building a supply chain for ANEEL fuel, using L&T's manufacturing strength, is a key step. L&T will support CCTE within India's legal framework."
#167
Investors in a southern Spanish solar plant, mostly hailing from the Netherlands and Luxembourg, are headed to London's Commercial Court in a bid to recoup €108m ($125m) from the Spanish government. The investors claim Spain reneged on subsidies it promised to harness clean energy in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crash, cutting payouts without notice.

Renewable energy investors who lost subsidies promised by Spain are heading to a London court to try to claw back $125 million from the government - a decadelong dispute with ramifications for clean energy financing across the European Union.
The outcome will be closely watched by investors after the U.S. passed a new law offering incentives for homegrown green technology. Experts say the Inflation Reduction Act is already drawing clean energy investment away from EU countries like Spain, leaving the 27-nation bloc much less competitive globally.
The European Commission, the EU's executive arm, has proposed its own rules on allowing state aid and incentives for green investment. But those changes would not affect court cases already underway.
The lawsuit in London's Commercial Court this week involves investors from the Netherlands and Luxembourg who poured millions into a solar plant in southern Spain in 2011. The Spanish government offered subsidies to encourage growth in renewable energy production, then controversially slashed the payments without notice as it cut costs after the 2008 financial crisis.
Spain has been sued internationally more than 50 times over the retroactive changes. It has not paid out despite losing more than 20 cases so far, according to U.N. data on international investment disputes. The EU backs Spain's position.
"Those renewable investors - multibillion-dollar companies - are very concerned about the attitude of Spain and Europe looking forward," said Nick Cherryman, one of the lawyers leading the case against Spain. "Why should they take risks investing in Europe given the track record?"

Spain now ranks alongside Venezuela and Russia as countries with the most unpaid debts over commercial treaty violations, according to a recent ranking compiled by Nikos Lavranos, a Netherlands-based expert in investment arbitration and EU law.
Most of the cases allege that Spain broke agreements it agreed to honor under the international Energy Charter Treaty, a legally binding agreement between 50 countries to protect companies from unfair government interference in the energy sector.
Environmental campaigners have criticised the treaty for protecting fossil fuel investment because financiers can also sue over policy changes aimed at scaling back polluting projects. However, for Spain, almost all cases relate to renewable energy.
"If you take the bigger picture, the EU is shooting itself in the foot by supporting Spain in this," Lavranos said. "You cannot trust that they can follow through with their agreements, so I think you do shake investors' confidence."
He also questioned how leaving investors in the lurch over initiatives to ramp up renewable energy production aligned with recent EU initiatives like the Green New Deal, a goal for carbon neutrality by 2050 and relaxation of subsidy rules.
"It's very contradictory," Lavranos said.
In 2013, the investors in Spain brought a case before the World Bank-backed International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, an arbitration body between governments and investors.
Spain in 2018 was ordered to compensate investors over its subsidy changes. Despite being told to pay out more than $1 billion by the international body, Spain has refused, citing EU rules.
Spain's Ecological Transition Ministry said the payments "may be contrary to EU law and constitute illegal state aid." When the government is told to make a payout, it says it notifies Brussels but that "Spain cannot pay before the commission's decision, so it is faithfully complying with its legal obligations."
The European Commission said the Energy Charter Treaty does not apply in disputes between member states like the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Spain, arguing EU law takes precedence. The commission says the decision to compensate investors over lost Spanish subsidies is still being studied and "the preliminary view is that the arbitration award would constitute state aid."
Cherryman, the investors' lawyer, said the EU thinks it "should be superior to international treaty law." After waiting for payment for a decade and given the EU position, his team is trying to seize part of a $1 billion settlement awarded to Spain over a 2002 oil spill.
Starting Wednesday, the London court will hear Spain's arguments that the investors should not be allowed to seize those assets in lieu of compensation they have yet to be paid.
Jose Angel Rueda, a Spanish international arbitration lawyer who has represented several renewable energy investors against Spain, said the country's reputation is at stake. Other EU members like Germany and Hungary have paid out after international disputes, opting to maintain a positive image, he said.
"Spain is not like Russia or Venezuela. It was expected to be a serious country. But the awards remain unpaid," Rueda said. "Investors can see that Spain might not be a reliable state in terms of the rule of law."
Following years of legal wrangling, the EU is now considering a coordinated withdrawal from the energy treaty, though that would not affect pending disputes.
"It is not possible to modernize the treaty to make it compatible with the objectives of the Paris agreement and the European Green Deal," Spain's Ecological Transition Ministry said.
The European Commission agreed, saying a withdrawal was "the most pragmatic way forward."
That might simply nudge investors to look across the Atlantic, Cherryman said.
"America has been nimble, and it introduced very favorable legislation to encourage renewable investment," he said. "They will respect my investment. Or I can take risk and go into Europe, go into Spain."
The risk was the loss of more money for renewables, which are "a win for everybody," Cherryman said. "We all want to see renewables being invested in and we all want a greener environment that is a safer future for our children."
#168
Egypt and Norway on Thursday signed an agreement for several projects to enhance their cooperation in developing renewable energy. Egypt has been racing to launch environment-friendly projects in the lead-up to the 27th UN Climate Change Conference in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh in November.
"The excellent relations between our countries are broad," Norwegian Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt said at a press briefing in Cairo with Egypt's Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry.

"They have become broader today with the signing of agreements between the Egyptian government and Norwegian renewable energy company Scatec," she added.
Egypt's Prime Minister Mustafa Madbouly attended the singing ceremony between representatives of Egypt's Sovereign Fund, the Norwegian Norfund and Scatec, Norway's leading renewable power producer, according to a Cabinet statement.
The agreement envisages projects for the production of renewable energy, green hydrogen and the building of a green infrastructure in African countries.
"African countries are particularly vulnerable to climate change, and it is positive that Egypt has taken on the responsibility of leading this year's climate summit," Huitfeldt said Wednesday before arriving in Cairo.
Earlier this month, Egypt signed a USD 5 billion memorandum of understanding with Scatec to establish a plant in the Suez Canal area for producing green ammonia from green hydrogen.

The plant, which is to go live in 2025, is expected to produce one ton of green ammonia a year, with a potential to expand to three tons, the government said.
"Norwegian companies are keen on strengthening their presence in Egypt," Shoukry said.
"We can benefit from their expertise and their performance in sectors that are really important to Egypt such as the desalination of water, renewable energy and green hydrogen." 
#169
The ministry of power on Monday sais it has circulated the draft rules on renewable energy for seeking comments from stakeholders.
The ministry has circulated the "Draft Electricity (promoting renewable energy through Green Energy Open Access) Rules, 2021," an official statement said.
The ministry has sought comments within 30 days.
These rules are proposed for purchase and consumption of green energy including the energy from waste-to-energy plants.
The draft rules will provide in detail for Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO); green energy open access; nodal agencies; Procedure for grant of green energy open access; banking; and cross subsidy surcharge.
These draft rules with regard to tariff propose that "the tariff for the green energy shall be determined by the Appropriate Commission, which may comprise of the average pooled power purchase cost of the renewable energy, cross-subsidy charges (if any) and service charges covering all prudent cost of the distribution licensee for providing the green energy".

The draft rules state green hydrogen is the hydrogen produced using electricity from the renewable sources.
The obligated entity including the industries can also meet their Renewable Purchase Obligation by purchasing green hydrogen.
The quantum of green hydrogen would be computed by considering the equivalence to the green hydrogen produced from one MWh of electricity from the renewable sources or its multiple. The norms shall be notified by the Central Commission, it stated.
These draft rules also propose guidelines for green energy open access and state that the Appropriate Commission shall put in place regulations in accordance with this rule to provide Green Energy Open Access to consumers who are willing to consume the green energy.
All applications for open access of green energy shall be granted within a maximum of 15 days. Provided that only consumers who have contracted demand/ sanctioned load of hundred kW and above shall be eligible to take power through green energy open access.
As per draft rules, there shall be no limit of supply of power for the captive consumers taking power under green energy open access. Provided further that reasonable conditions such as the minimum number of time blocks for which the consumer shall not change the quantum of power consumed through open access may be imposed so as to avoid high variation in demand to be met by the distribution licensee.
#170
While Gujarat takes the lead in rooftop solar installations on homes as part of India's strides towards clean energy, industrial units are also increasingly turning to solar and other sources of renewable energy for their captive consumption.
Favourable policies, incentives, cost savings and abundant solar resources are the key forces enabling investment in this sector in Gujarat.

The state is witnessing significant growth in solar energy use by industries such as textiles, chemicals and engineering.
While Surat-based specialty chemicals major Anupam Rasayan Limited has a significant 20MW of captive solar power generation capacity, the trend is also seen among micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).
Omax Cotspin Private Limited, which runs a spinning mill in Surendranagar, has set up a wind and solar power generation hybrid project with 3. 4MW of solar capacity. "Our annual electricity consumption is about 4. 50 crore units. We started solar power generation at the end of March and hope to get 50 lakh units through it. We have invested Rs 16. 50 crore in solar power and are in the process of setting up another 8MW solar unit. This will help us reduce our electricity costs significantly," said company director Jayesh Patel.
According to data from the Gujarat Energy Development Agency (GEDA), solar rooftop installation by industry has grown manyfold in the last five years, going from 39. 27MW in 2018 to 517. 67MW in 2023.
Industry players say a major shift has been seen since the Covid pandemic began. "Solar rooftop installations became a necessary aid for industries, particularly MSMEs, which were facing the heat of low margins due to reduced demand. This is because power costs fell by 70% or more for many MSMEs," said a source in the power sector.

Gujarat has witnessed the establishment of several largescale solar installations, including standalone solar power plants and rooftop solar systems, state government sources said. Industries such as manufacturing, textiles, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals have adopted solar energy to meet electricity needs and reduce dependence on traditional energy sources.
Kadi-based Pashupati Group has installed rooftop and groundmounted solar modules. Saurin Parikh, chairman of the company, said, "We installed 2. 7MW of rooftop solar panels about five years ago at a cost of Rs 9 crore, which generates 35 lakh units a year. Our annual electricity requirement is about 4 crore units. We recently started ground mounted solar as well, of 7. 5MW capacity. We expect to generate around 1. 15 crore units annually. We invested Rs 32 crore in the ground-mounted solar project. "
Savings, infrastructure driving adoption
Commercial considerations are key drivers of solar adoption by industry. "As technology matures, the cost of power generation is falling. Moreover, while there has been a greater degree of volatility in the prices of coal and gas, solar adoption will stabilize power costs and cut down the cost of operation," a power sector source said.
At a time when industrial units are reeling from inflation with the prices of raw materials rising across sectors, solar adoption helps bring down power costs.
The pharma sector has also seen aggressive solar installation. Shrenik Shah, MD of Himmatnagarbased Montage Laboratories Pvt Ltd, said, "We have installed 290kW of rooftop solar capacity at our factory in Himmatnagar. Of this, 250kW was set up around two years ago at a cost of Rs 90 lakh. This enables us to save Rs 3.50 lakh every month. We intend to set up another 250kW solar unit at our factory in a year."Shah, who is president of Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA) Gujarat, said, "Many pharma players are adopting solar because the cost of electricity is increasing due to regulatory requirements for heating, ventilation and air-conditioning. Solar is helping companies save on energy costs. Most new plants have solar power generation capacity, because pharma factories typically have terraces where it is easier to install rooftop solar systems."
Gujarat has reached record-low solar capacity costs, making solar power viable for industries, according to government sources. This has also encouraged companies to adopt solar energy and make the switch to cleaner power. The readily available infrastructure is another aspect that helps industry in this regard. "Gujarat was one of the early movers in integrating solar power to its existing grid. Net metering policies allow units to sell surplus solar energy back to the grid, to offset their electricity bills and reduce costs," an industry source said.
State takes lead in solar adoption by industry
India reported its highest solar capacity installation in 2022, when it added 13GW. Gujarat has taken the lead in this capacity addition, driven by industrial, residential and commercial consumption. Solar power adoption by industry in Gujarat has been significant in recent years. The state has consequently emerged as a leader in terms of solar energy generation and utilization.
Top sources in the state government said Gujarat is geographically well-suited for solar power the year. "The state gets high levels of solar radiation, which is ideal for harnessing solar energy. Moreover, policies and incentives of the government are encouraging industry to invest in solar energy. The state offers favourable tariffs, tax benefits, subsidies and easy clearances," the source said. dedicated industrial zones that provide the requisite infrastructure for industry to set up solar power projects. The Charanka, Dholera and Raghanesda solar parks have attracted significant investments from industrial players.
#171
State govt is likely to prepare the implementation guidelines for the hydrogen policy, the hydrogen usage policy, the net-zero emission and green-steam policy for industries, and the renewable energy (RE) policy for aquaculture. The initiative will help Goa achieve the targets of the Clean Energy Roadmap.
In govt's view, the strategic scope of partnership for the implementation of the roadmap covers capacity-building, technical, and financial categories.


The power department, Goa Energy Development Agency, the department of new and renewable energy (NRE) and associated departments and agencies will work together for the strategic implementation of the programmes. Solarising the health sector and implementing the integrated green-rating system for the tourism sector are among the programmes.
A senior officer said state govt's role in implementing the Energy Plan Programme with GIZ - a German service provider in India - will include piloting innovative technologies such as the RE application to fishery value chains and the carbon-financed aggregation of renewable energy.

Technical assistance to analyse the potential of (pump) storage necessary for grid stability/balancing, to boost Goa's investment market readiness, and to spread awareness of RE's advantages among stakeholders and beneficiaries are some elements of the implementation process, the officer said.
GIZ and state govt will identify sectors/areas for intervention based on the state's priority commitments, the interests of key stakeholders, and the market ecosystem.

The officer said that state govt will provide the necessary data/information and timely feedback, and will take intermediary strategic decisions to initiate the subsequent phases of technical cooperation.
"The state will leverage finance (necessary) for the technical pilot schemes or for rolling out programmes," the officer said. "Besides, the state will form an appropriate review committee for each thematic area of clean energy."
The officer said that the assessment of innovative solar technologies (such as floating solar, agro PV, and rail and road integrated solar PV) will be among the focus areas.
Exploring the potential of micro-grid and its productive application in remote areas of Goa such as Valpoi, Dharbandora, and Usgao are on the cards.
The implementation will also factor in the assessment of the livelihood value chain promoted by the biodiversity board and the estimation of the biomass value chain to design a market model to promote biomass-technology-based livelihoods.
Promoting green cooking across Goa at homestays and restaurants, and in areas where biomass is used as the primary fuel will also be a part of the implementation exercise, the officer said.
#172
Gujarat is blazing a trail in the renewable energy sector as it ramps up its installed capacity, solidifying its position as a leader in India's clean energy transition. Recently, Gujarat outshone Tamil Nadu with the highest wind energy installations in the country. Data from the Union ministry of new and renewable energy reveals that Gujarat boasts an impressive installed capacity of 10.41 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy, surpassing Chennai's 10.12GW capacity.

In fact, this accounts for a remarkable 51.3% of the state's total renewable energy capacity, including biopower and solar power.
With this, wind energy has taken the lead over solar energy installations in Gujarat. The state boasts an additional 9.68GW of solar installations, along with 0.11GW of biopower generation capacity and 91.64MW of small hydro power.
"The Centre has set a target of 500GW of installed renewable energy capacity by 2030. Gujarat has consistently been at the forefront of this sector, with aggressive installations in wind and solar energy generation. Enhanced incentives for adoption in residential and industrial sectors are among the key factors driving this rapid growth. To achieve the 500GW target, a diverse mix of solar, wind, and other renewable energies is essential," explains Jaideep Malaviya, a renewable energy consultant.

While Gujarat has long been a pioneer in solar installations, it currently ranks second to Rajasthan in terms of cumulative solar installations in India. However, Gujarat shows no signs of slowing down, as the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) recently announced plans to add 10GW of fresh renewable energy capacity in 2023-24.
A senior GUVNL official shares, "Our goal is to reduce dependence on fossil fuel-based energy, and we have ambitious plans for renewable energy installations. We aim to add 10GW of renewable energy capacity in the current fiscal year, to be installed within the next two years. In the first quarter of 2023-24, we have already initiated the process for 5GW of renewable energy. We have already signed power purchase agreements (PPAs) for 860MW, and other tender processes are underway. Gujarat has maintained its position as a leading state in renewable energy, and we believe that the new 10GW capacity will further strengthen our position."
#173
A new report finds India is on track to meet its 2030 goals for solar and battery storage but needs more government support for offshore wind, electric vehicles, and green hydrogen. While current subsidies suffice for solar and batteries, emerging technologies require significant additional investment to become cost-competitive and achieve India's clean energy ambitions.
India is on track to achieve many of its 2030 clean energy goals but needs to step up government support measures to accelerate the deployment of offshore wind, electric vehicles (EVs), and green hydrogen (GH2), finds new report by center for study of science, technology and policy (CSTEP) and the international institute for sustainable development (IISD).The central government has set ambitious goals to ramp up a range of clean technologies by 2030 as part of its strategy to increase energy independence, energy security, and energy access while promoting industrial development and reducing air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.The report, 'Budgeting for net zero: government support needed to meet India's 2030 clean energy goals', released on Tuesday finds that India's current government support measures are on track to reach goals for solar PV and battery energy storage systems (BESSs), driven by government subsidies and policy support. No additional direct financial support is required, but regulatory reforms and accelerated auctions are essential to maintain momentum.However, emerging technologies like offshore wind and GH2 require immediate additional and sustained investment to reach cost competitiveness."India's clean energy ambition is remarkable, and delivering on these goals will require bold investments and policy alignment," said Swasti Raizada, Policy Advisor at IISD and co-author of the report.
"Emerging technologies like offshore wind and green hydrogen represent transformative opportunities for the country's energy landscape but need sustained support to realize their potential."Offshore wind accounts for the largest cost gap and current levels of government support fall short in bridging it. The cost gap identifies how much the cost of a clean technology needs to drop to reach cost parity with conventional equivalents (such as thermal power and internal combustion engine vehicles) and meet the clean energy goal for a specific technology. To tap into India's 71 GW of offshore wind potential, additional government support of at least Rs 9,000 crore per GW (USD 1.08 billion per GW) will be needed.The cost gap analysis is useful to inform future government support. The report finds that current financial support by the central government for solar PV and BESS is sufficient to fully cover the cost gap till 2030 of Rs 14,500 crore (USD 1.76 billion) for solar PV and Rs 2,637 crore (USD 0.3 billion) for BESSs respectively.For other technologies, the cost gap until 2030 is much higher Rs 19,000 crore (USD 2.29 billion) for electric two-wheelers, Rs 2.8 lakh crore (USD 34 billion) for GH2, and Rs 5.1 lakh crore (USD 61 billion) for offshore wind.The report underscores the urgent need for both central and state governments to act now, noting that small but early investments in clean energy technologies will crowd in much larger private investments and yield long-term economic and environmental benefits. Achieving clean energy goals will drive economic growth, job creation, and increased public revenue while reducing greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution."Investing now in clean energy technologies, even for high-cost sectors like offshore wind and green hydrogen, will ensure India's global competitiveness and long-term economic and environmental resilience," said Anasuya Gangopadhyay, Senior Associate at CSTEP and co-author of the report.
#174
Access to cooling is now recognized as an urgent global challenge with 1.2 billion people facing extreme and potentially fatal risk from heat. Sustainable Energy for all (SEforALL)' annual report Chilling Prospects: Tracking Sustainable Cooling for All 2022, shows that the risks to the most vulnerable from extreme heat are growing because of a lack of access to sustainable cooling.

People will remain at high risk if we fail to meet key SDGs that enable access to cooling: universal electrification and eradicating extreme poverty.
SEforALL is the international organization that works in partnership with the United Nations (UN), leaders in government, and others, to drive faster action on access to energy. Its Chilling Prospects
report assessed 76 countries with cooling access challenges and found that, globally, 1.2 billion people do not have adequate access to cooling-threatening their ability to survive extreme heat, store nutritious food, or receive a safe vaccine. For the first time, Chilling Prospects
forecasts access to cooling risks in 2030. It finds that current trends will leave more people at high risk at the end of the decade, but a pathway that delivers universal electricity access and ends extreme poverty by 2030 would reduce the number of people at high risk by 36%, or more than 450 million people.
Launched during a joint event with UNEP led Cool Coalition, the report is a stark reminder that for millions of people, daily life cannot stop when temperatures hit heatwave levels. For those living below the poverty line or without access to reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy, their ability to adapt and thrive is held back without access to cooling.
Damilola Ogunbiyi, CEO and Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for SEforALL, said: "Cooling is a make-or-break issue for the Sustainable Development Goals and the environment. With one in every seven people at risk from life-threatening temperatures or broken cold chains, neither people nor the planet can afford inaction on sustainable cooling."
Life on a warming planet means more extreme weather and a greater likelihood of devastating heatwaves. In 2014, the World Health Organization predicted that 12,000 people would lose their lives annually due to heatwaves. Eight years on, we know the scale of the challenge is greater: new research for the Lancet shows that extreme heat caused the deaths of 356,000 people in 2019 alone.
As confirmed by the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report on Adaptation, the risks of heat extremes are even higher in cities. By 2050, 68% of the global population is expected to live in urban areas, with the number of megacities exceeding 10 million inhabitants expected to reach 43-many of these in developing regions.

Inger Andersen, Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), said: "We need everybody acting under one vision to decarbonize the cooling sector by 2050. A vision of a world in which we keep our planet, homes and workplaces cool by combining the right technologies with the power of the natural world."
Nature-based solutions such as tree planting help green urban areas and increase access to shade.
Technology-based solutions are such as affordable, hyper-efficient air conditioners, well-designed buildings, and district cooling systems.
Such solutions are vital to reach the UN's SDG 7: Access to Affordable and Clean Energy, and investment and commitment is needed now.
Damilola Ogunbiyi added: "The data shows that business as usual means there will be more vulnerable people by 2030, making our efforts to deliver SDG 7 and the Paris Agreement more challenging. In a warming world, both equitable economies and just, inclusive clean energy transitions rely on rapidly delivering sustainable cooling for all. We also need to rapidly shift to sustainable technologies, so access to cooling does not worsen global climate change".
Cooling means for poverty and food security
Recent heatwaves across India and Pakistan brought blistering temperatures of up to 50°C together with widespread power cuts.
Extreme poverty (defined by the World Bank as those living on less than USD$1.90 per day) compounds cooling access risks for already marginalized rural and urban dwellers.
Rural populations across the globe are getting poorer and have fewer options available to them. For example, rural poor communities now make up 36% of the Indian population and while electricity access is at almost 100%, ownership of cooling devices is low. With a population of 1.4 billion, the country has just 162 million refrigerators.
Many of those in rural poverty engage in subsistence farming and lack access to refrigeration. For small-scale commercial farmers in rural settings, a lack of access to an intact cold chain prevents them from selling their products further afield at a higher price.
An estimated 13% of all food production is lost due to a lack of cold chain infrastructure.
Lack of access to reliable, affordable, and sustainable cold chains is a contributory factor to food loss. In high-impact countries, India loses 17% of its perishable foods, and China almost 50%.
Cooling means for health
Vaccines must typically have consistent cold storage between 2°C and 8°C to maintain their efficacy. Some vaccines also require ultra-cold chain (UCC) storage of -20°C to -70°C for initial storage, as was the case for some COVID-19 vaccines.
Blood, insulin, and some medicines also require cooling, with blood storage requiring temperatures between 2°C and 6°C, and fresh frozen plasma needing below -30°C.
175
AM Green Ammonia India pvt ltd on Monday said it executed a firm and binding power purchase agreement (PPA) with clean energy solutions provider Gentari through its subsidiary, Gentari Renewables India Castor One Private Limited. Gentari will supply 650 MW round-the-clock (RTC), carbon-free energy to power AMG Ammonia's upcoming green ammonia facilities as part of a long-term PPA.Under the arrangement, Gentari will set up approximately 2400 MWp of renewable energy capacity, comprising both solar and wind, in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. This will be the single largest greenfield project by Gentari globally. Gentari will integrate this with 350 MW/2100 MWh energy storage to supply firm and dispatchable green power to AMG Ammonia's facilities.AMG Ammonia is developing one of the world's largest green ammonia platforms, with a target to achieve five million tonnes per year by 2030 as part of efforts to achieve net zero targets both in India and OECD markets. This output will be equivalent to approximately 1 MTPA of green hydrogen, accounting for one-fifth of India's target for green hydrogen production under the National Green Hydrogen Mission and 10% of Europe's target for green hydrogen imports.
Gentari country head for India, Navjit Gill, said while the solar project will be constructed at a single location, the wind projects will be spread across multiple locations connected through the ISTS network."This will be a one-of-its-kind project, integrating with energy storage to supply firm and dispatchable green energy to AMG Ammonia's facilities. With our aligned vision and extensive expertise, we aim to drive rapid progress in expanding India's renewable energy capacity and fostering sustainable growth in the green electron-to-molecule chain," he said. 
#176
Veteran US diplomat John Kerry warned Thursday that the need to quickly and widely deploy climate technology to curb planet-heating emissions would be "hurt irreparably" by a Donald Trump presidency. That "urgency and the need to move faster in scale... would be hurt irreparably by the presence of President Trump", he added.
Veteran US diplomat John Kerry warned Thursday that the need to quickly and widely deploy climate technology to curb planet-heating emissions would be "hurt irreparably" by a Donald Trump presidency.
Kerry said a re-elected Trump could not stop investment and innovation in clean technology, but could frustrate it at a critical time when deep reductions to emissions are urgently needed.

"Acceleration of these markets is the name of the game. That is the key," the former US climate envoy said at a technology summit in London hosted by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates.
That "urgency and the need to move faster in scale... would be hurt irreparably by the presence of President Trump", he added.

His remarks come ahead of a closely-watched debate between President Joe Biden and Trump, who pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord and has cast doubt on the science of climate change.
Kerry said that the consequences of the world failing to limit temperature rises were playing out every day in disasters across the globe.
"I think we've got to remember what should what's driving us," he said. "This is life or death, literally."

Since stepping down as climate envoy in March, Kerry has been trying to drum up investment in clean energy and other solutions to drive down the emissions causing global warming.
The world needs trillions of dollars annually to make this happen "and no government has enough money to do this", he said.
"I believe the private sector is the entity that is going to solve this," he said.
Kerry told investors that Trump was "committed to blocking most of what you do" but that market forces would prevail in the end, even if frustrated.
"The marketplace is bigger than any one president or one country," Kerry told AFP.
"And the marketplace has made its decision to go in this direction because we have to (but) also because they think there's money to be made, and it's a better business model. So I'm confident we will continue no matter what."
Kerry served as secretary of state and a senator and was the Democratic Party's unsuccessful candidate for president in 2004 against George W. Bush.
As the top diplomat under president Barack Obama, Kerry helped negotiate the 2015 Paris climate accord. Biden on taking office in 2021 appointed Kerry to a first cabinet-level role of special envoy on climate.
#177
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) recently organized its 15th Competitiveness & Cluster Summit 2022 in Delhi on 21st & 22nd November. The Summit was attended by more than 150 participants from various large, medium and small industries competing with each other sharing their innovative case studies and technologies implemented related to event themes such as best practices for energy excellence, digital transformation, productivity and quality excellence.
One of the key highlights of the summit was launch of CII Electric Motor Rewinder Certification System developed jointly with International Copper Association (ICA) India as a knowledge partner. In India, annually 12 million motors are repaired by motor rewinders present in open market and industry inhouse combined. With each instance of rewinding there is an average efficiency loss of 1.03% per rewinding which can even go upto 5% if poor quality materials and unskilled labour is deployed. With better rewinding practices for Industrial LT Induction motors, India can save upto 23 billion units to the tune of ~INR 15,000 Cr. per annum and reduce carbon footprint by ~22 Mn tons annually for India. This system has been developed with an objective to enhance the capability of rewinders through adoption of industry best practices based on a voluntary assessment and certification framework, which will help address the efficiency drop of repaired motors and improve its reliability as well. Mr. Milind Deore, Director, Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) appreciated the initiative and stressed on the need for skill development of service providers, to create market of organized and qualified workforce for motor repair which and lead to reduction in energy consumption and decarbonization of the end use industries. Mr. Abhishek Dhupar, Chief Manager, ICA India further informed that the Power Sector Skill Council of India has also developed a National Occupational Standard through Electrical Winder curriculum to train the young skilled workforce with better employability furthering the mission of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY). CII is in discussion with 2 states to implement this system with support of State Designated agencies under BEE and Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI) for technical assistance grant to setup a rewinding center of excellence. About ICA India (International Copper Association) The International Copper Association India (ICA India) is a member of Copper Alliance and the Indian arm of the International Copper Association Limited (ICA), the leading not for profit organization for the promotion of copper worldwide set up in 1959. ICA has been operating since 1998 in India and has built an active association with the growing number of copper users through its programs. ICA India Programs are committed to improving the quality of life through better Electrical Safety, Energy Efficiency, Clean Energy and Sustainability. ICA India's efforts have been pivotal to advancing better standards, across various products, applications and industries, by leveraging upon the superior technical performance of Copper. (Disclaimer: The above press release comes to you under an arrangement with Newsvoir and PTI takes no editorial responsibility for the same.). 
#178
Established companies and startups in the green energy and technology sectors in Gujarat are drawing significant investments through routes such as venture capitalists, banks and private equity. As the govt is pushing especially hard for growth in the sector, the opportunity is very attractive. Such startups and companies' have raised Rs 13,000 crore in the past six months across various investment modes.
In one of Asia's largest project financing deals, Adani Green Energy Limited secured $1.36 billion (about Rs 11,000 crore) from a consortium of eight international banks in Dec 2023.

These funds will finance the company's project in the world's largest renewable energy park in Khavda. Meanwhile, Ahmedabad-based Zodiac Energy Limited announced plans to raise Rs 30 crore through a qualified institutional placement.
Apart from established companies, investors have shown enthusiasm for startup investments particularly in the last couple of years. Surat-based Solnce Energy Private Limited raised Rs 1.25 crore from multiple investors, including family businesses, high-net-worth individuals (HNIs) and venture capital firms. Yash Tarwadi, the founder and CEO of the company, said, "Investors trust the growth prospects in the renewable energy sector. This is especially true because of the ambitious targets set by the govt for renewable energy adoption."
Kamal Bansal, MD of GVFL, said, "Green energy is the future. The govt is promoting green energy and electric vehicles as well. This ensures demand and thus investors have increased interest in this segment. Green energy promotion also has social impact and India has set ambitious plans for green energy and there is assured viability. This pulls investors to this sector."
'Manufacturing sectors attract most investments'
Most big-ticket investments are taking place in core manufacturing sectors, which in turn enables the growth of allied and ancillary industries.
Kunj Shah, chairman of Zodiac Energy, said, "We will be taking to feeder-level solarization for our upcoming project, which includes 28MW of AC and 40MW of DC power, under the PM Kusum Yojana. This Rs 150 crore project is expected to be completed by the end of this year."

Blue Earth Capital AG, a specialist global impact investor, invested in Ahmedabad-based Nepra Resource Management Pvt Ltd through a minority stake for an undisclosed sum in Feb 2024.
Gensol Engineering raised $108 million (Rs 900 crore) in equity capital through warrants convertible into equity shares on preferential basis. Its subsidiary, Matrix Gas and Renewables Ltd, which operates in the green hydrogen sector, recently raised Rs 350 crore through an initial public offering (IPO).
In other significant investments, the Australian global financial services group Macquarie Capital acquired a substantial minority stake in ChargeZone, a Vadodara-based company specializing in high-speed electric vehicle (EV) charging networks. Similarly, Evify, a Gujarat-based EV logistics startup, raised $1.3 million in a pre-Series A round from venture capital funds GVFL and Piper Serica Angel Fund. Umesh Uttamchandani, co-founder of DevX, said, "The government of India is aggressively pushing for reduction of imports in the energy sector and clean energy adoption. Several startups have entered the businesses of operations and management of solar panels and wind turbines, manufacturing PV modules or offering financial and EPC services for green energy verticals, while others focus on innovation. As a result, independent investors and venture capitalists are confident of good returns."
#179
India and Russia are working on a deal worth Rs 10,500 crore for the supply of nuclear fuel and core components to Kudankulam nuclear power plant's two new units coming up with Moscow's help, people in the know said.
The deal envisages Russian nuclear fuel company TVEL JSC supplying to the dept of atomic energy the initial loads and subsequent five reloads for units 3 and 4 of the Kudankulam N-power project along with control rods and fuel assembly inspection tool set from 2025 to 2033.
The people cited above said New Delhi is also looking at the possibility of forming a joint venture with Rosatom, the state-run parent of TVEL, for manufacturing the nuclear fuel for the plant in India - which will be a boost for India's nuclear capability.
The Kudankulam nuclear power project is located 650 km south of Chennai, in the Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu. It is based on the Russian pressurised heavy water reactor technology, and will be the largest nuclear power project in the country with a capacity of 6,000 MW once all six units are completed. Currently, two units with a cumulative capacity of 2 GW are operational.
India currently has nuclear power capacity of 7 GW (gigawatts) and plans to nearly double it to 13 GW by 2029 as part of clean energy transition plans. India and Russia last year signed an agreement on the construction of the last two units of the Kundankulam project.
TVEL provides nuclear fuel to 76 energy reactors in Russia and 14 countries of Europe and Asia, helping these installations to produce more than 400 billion units of electricity annually. The company includes enterprises specialised in the fabrication of nuclear fuel, uranium conversion and enrichment and production of gas centrifuges.
#180
Early election results show Donald Trump potentially taking an early lead over Kamala Harris, but political analysts caution against premature victory declarations. Vote-counting processes, particularly in battleground states, could shift initial results as mail-in and absentee ballots are tallied in the days following election night.

Early trends suggest former US President and Republican nominee Donald Trump secured an initial lead with approximately 150 electoral votes over vice president Kamala Harris. However, political analysts warn that this early advantage may not reveal the ultimate outcome, as Democratic candidate Kamala Harris could still reverse the tide.
The phenomenon, often dubbed as "mirages" in elections, is set to play a central role in shaping public perceptions on election night, especially in battleground states where vote-counting quirks can paint misleading pictures.
What gave Trump a chance to claim 'stolen election'
In 2020, states such as Pennsylvania and Wisconsin exhibited what experts call a "red mirage," showing Trump leading on election night before a "blue shift" occurred as mail-in ballots heavily favored by Democrats were tallied, ultimately pushing Joe Biden into the lead.
Trump's team utilized this pattern to push claims of a stolen election, though the outcome was merely a consequence of the state's voting laws and mail-in ballot trends. This week, similar dynamics are expected, only to see a shift as in-person votes are counted in states like North Carolina and Georgia.

Why declaring victory is complex
As ballots roll in, Trump's campaign reportedly plans to declare victory should he appear to cross the critical 270 electoral vote mark-a move experts say could be premature given the complexities of ballot processing across various states.

With a large portion of Democratic voters in populous urban areas, where vote processing tends to be slower, delayed counts could heavily influence final tallies in the days following Election Day. This variance in vote reporting will leave some states, particularly Pennsylvania and Arizona, caught in a prolonged counting process as absentee ballots trickle in.
What delays results
Each battleground state has its own timeline and rules for processing votes, and these could impact the perceived winner on election night. Pennsylvania, for instance, prohibits election officials from counting mail-in ballots until the morning of Election Day, potentially delaying results for days as Democratic mail-in votes gradually reduce Trump's in-person voting advantage. A new law aims to ease concerns by requiring counties to disclose the number of outstanding mail ballots by midnight, helping to preempt misinformation.
In Wisconsin, where votes are processed centrally in major cities, large early-morning dumps of absentee ballots may again tip the scales in Harris's favor, just as they did for Biden in 2020. Similarly, North Carolina, known for its extended vote canvassing, may keep Americans guessing for days as absentee and overseas ballots continue to be counted even after election night.
In states like Arizona, where voting by mail is highly popular, early results could show Harris in the lead due to early and mail-in ballots, though the numbers might edge towards Trump as in-person votes are added. This trend may reverse again once all mail ballots-including those dropped off on Election Day-are counted in subsequent days.
Nevada, infamous for its protracted counting process in 2020, could see swifter tabulation this year due to new regulations allowing early ballot processing weeks before Election Day. However, Nevada's allowance for late-arriving mail ballots postmarked by November 5 may delay a final result, as historically Democratic late ballots are counted.
#181
World Consumer Rights Day is observed on March 15 every year. It is a means to raise awareness across the globe about the rights and needs of consumers. Celebrating this day is a chance to demand that consumer rights are respected and protected, and to protest against all the market abuses and social injustices that a consumer faces.
Being a consumer, it is important for you to know about your rights.
This will help you take appropriate steps when you are not satisfied with the service and product you have purchased or even when you feel cheated.
World Consumer Rights Day 2023 is aimed at familiarising consumers with their rights and also highlighting the areas where there is a lack of consumer protection. Let's check out the theme, history, and significance of World Consumer Rights Day 2023.

The theme for World Consumer Rights Day 2023 is 'Empowering Consumers Through Clean Energy Transitions'. As per Consumers International, the theme aims at achieving a just transition in the energy sector. Consumer International states, "Coming together for change in energy transitions, we will both support consumers through the cost-of-living crisis and help to meet net-zero targets by promoting access to sustainable energy globally."

World Consumer Rights Day 2023: History
Every year, World Consumer Rights Day is recognised on March 15 because, on the same date in 1962, former United States President John F. Kennedy gave a special message about consumer rights to the US Congress. He introduced four consumer rights which were the Right to safety, the Right to be informed, the Right to choose, and the Right to be heard.
World Consumer Rights Day 2023: Significance
The main significance behind celebrating World Consumer Rights Day is to ensure that all consumers are aware of their rights and that they are not bluffed and cheated for fraudulent products and companies. 
#182

Tata Motors and Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited (TPREL) today signed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) to develop a new 12MWp on-site solar project at Tata Motors' Pune commercial vehicle manufacturing facility. The installation is collectively expected to generate 17.5 million units of electricity every year, which will meet nearly 17.2% of the annualized requirement, potentially mitigating over 12400 tonnes/kWh of carbon emission each year, says the manufacturer.
Tata Motors and Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited (TPREL) today signed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) to develop a new 12MWp on-site solar project at Tata Motors' Pune commercial vehicle manufacturing facility. The installation is collectively expected to generate 17.5 million units of electricity every year, which will meet nearly 17.2% of the annualized requirement, potentially mitigating over 12400 tonnes/kWh of carbon emission each year, says the manufacturer.
The solar project is to be commissioned within six months after the PPA gets signed and will be a significant contributor to Tata Motors's long-term ambitions, added the official statement.
The PPA will include rooftop installations. This 12MWp adds to the existing 8.73 MWp summing to 20.73 MWp for Tata Motors across CVBU (Commercial vehicle), Pune.
 "Our strategy includes increasing the use of renewable energy through on-site and off-site measures to decarbonize our plants. This collaboration with Tata Power for a solar facility in Pune exemplifies our commitment to greener and more efficient operations. As a Future Ready company and a RE100 signatory, we are actively transitioning to renewable energy sources and this partnership marks a significant step toward our goal," says Vishal Badshah, Vice President of Commercial Vehicle Operations, Tata Motors Limited.
Ashish Khanna, CEO, Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited says, "Signing of 12MWp PPA with Tata Motors underlines our critical step forward on the shared goals of Tata Power Renewables and Tata Motors for a sustainable future. We are committed to support the energy transition of our C&I consumers through a bouquet of our clean energy solutions."
Earlier, Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited and Tata Motors collaborated to develop a 16MWp solar power project in Pantnagar, Uttarakhand.
#183
Billionaire Gautam Adani has set the ball rolling to build a one-million-ton per annum (MTPA) copper plant in his home state of Gujarat. He has raised Rs 6,071 crore in debt to finance the project's first phase (that is 0.5MTPA capacity). The development comes at a time when commodities magnate Anil Agarwal is looking for buyers for his copper unit in Tamil Nadu.
The Gujarat plant, according to Adani Enterprises, will be one of the largest copper refinery complexes in the world, and will commence production in two years.
Agarwal's Tamil Nadu unit, which remains closed since 2018 over alleged pollution violations, used to cater to 40% of India's copper needs.
Adani Enterprises incubates new business ventures for the Adani Group, India's third-largest conglomerate in terms of market value. It incorporated Kutch Copper on March 24, 2021 to manufacture copper materials, which are used in electric vehicles (EVs), renewable energy systems, cables, etc.
The Adani Group forayed into the electric mobility infrastructure space in association with French energy giant Total by launching the first EV-charging station in Ahmedabad in March this year. The duo plans to ramp up the infrastructure to 1,500 EV charging stations across the country. The Ahmedabad-based conglomerate also plans to manufacture EVs, but little information is publicly available.
While Adani Enterprises didn't reveal the total cost for the 1MTPA copper plant in Mundra, which also houses its port (India's largest), it said the project entails a mix of debt and equity. "This financial closure (loan of Rs 6,071 crore) enables us to accelerate the copper project and complete it within the set timelines," said Adani Enterprises director Vinay Prakash. "The project has requisite technology tied up and the construction works at the site are progressing well. It is scheduled to commence production during the first half of 2024."

An SBI-led consortium of banks has sanctioned the entire Rs 6,071-crore loan for phase-1 of the copper project, Adani Enterprises said. The other consortium members are Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank, Exim Bank of India, Indian Bank, Punjab National Bank, and Bank of Maharashtra, it added.
Adani Enterprises's latest move pits it against Aditya Birla Group's Hindalco (India's largest copper producer) and the government-owned Hindustan Copper. Demand for the soft metal is expected to rise as India ramps up its focus on clean energy and EVs. Following the closure of Agarwal's Tamil Nadu plant, India has become an importer of copper, buying at a record high price of $9,600 a ton.
#184
The speaker, Mr. Kobbi Shoshani, talked about how close the relationship between India, Israel, and the United States are. He said that India and Israel share a brotherly bond and that they are similar in age, with Israel being nine months younger than India. He said that the recent purchase of Haifa Port by the Adani Group is a strategic concept and that it is connected to India's relationship with the United States. He said that the United States and India are complementary economies and that the United States is India's number one trading partner. He said that the i2u2 countries can together overcome challenges in terms of global supply chain disruptions and climate change. He said that the United States government can open doors and create pathways for connections and collaboration between private companies. He said that the United States Development Finance Corporation has its largest portfolio in India focused on food, agriculture, pharma, and clean energy transition. He said that the United States is committed to inclusive growth and that it is important to help everyone in society benefit from growth.
Consul general of Israel, Kobbi Shoshani, said India and Israel share a brothers' bond. "We are more or less the same age. Israel is nine months younger. We have a lot of challenges that we are facing together, from security issues to hostile neighbors.

And we both have a very good young generation," he said.
On the recent purchase of Haifa port by the Adani Group, Shoshani said: "It's a strategic concept, and it's connected. It draws a line between India, UAE, Israel, Europe and the US. That is the line and everyone understands what it means," he said.
Shoshani recalled Israel's long and deep association with MP in agriculture.

US Consul General Mike Hankey reiterated US President Joe Biden's statement that the US-India relationship is an "indispensable partnership of the next century".
"When I look at the four countries represented on stage here, these are countries where we have an alignment of goals on a global level. We seek a world that is prosperous, free, open and rule-based," he said.
"As Union minister Piyush Goyal said, India and the US are complementary economies, and trust each other. We can see growth on both sides. The US is India's No. 1 trading partner as of last year -- $160 bn trade annually. We can take that to $500 billion," he added.

I2U2 countries can together overcome challenges in terms of global supply chain disruptions and climate change, he pointed out.
"Our last I2U2 meeting was at the UN General assembly in September last year and it focused on food and energy security, but we are also starting to brainstorm how we can take our idea of technological cooperation beyond I2U2 to new economies, offer solutions to other economies around the world and improve the world," he said, adding that Madhya Pradesh is "emblematic of what we aim to do on a global scale or on a national scale with India".
The US government can open doors, create pathways for connections and collaboration between private companies, he said.
The US Development Finance Corporation has its largest portfolio in India, he said. "We are putting in $3 billion through the US government into economic development in India, focused on food, agriculture, pharma and clean energy transition. Our focus is on inclusive growth. How do we help everyone in society benefit from this growth, especially in women-owned businesses," Hankey said.
#185
The West Asia Quad will "work together on infrastructure, transport, ports, trains, maritime security, digital infrastructure, clean energy... all of the issues that preoccupy us," said Yair Lapid, Israel's foreign minister and alternate Prime Minister in an exclusive interview to TOI on Monday.
"The four countries represented have a unique set of capabilities, knowledge, and experience, and what we hope to do is make sure all of that translates as quickly as possible into real commerce and real construction around the globe," he said.
Ringing in the 30th anniversary of bilateral diplomatic relations, Lapid described India-Israel ties as a "multifaceted strategic partnership".
India and Israel are negotiating a free trade agreement which aims to be a done deal over the next few months. "The areas in which our bilateral cooperation focuses today are representative of Israel's continuing interests in the Indo-Pacific as a whole: overcoming the global pandemic, fighting terrorism, expanding trade, and addressing the threat posed by climate change," Lapid said.
The Quad West, Lapid said would focus primarily on infrastructure. "The primary area identified in our initial meeting was infrastructure, including transportation and seaports."
Sidestepping a question on his country's relationship with China, which has invited some criticism from the US, Lapid said, Israel is pursuing relations with "many countries in the region". Looking ahead at growing ties in a postpandemic world, Lapid said, climate change would be a focus area for both countries.
#186
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's bilateral meeting with his Italian counterpart Giorgia Meloni saw the two sides discussing defence and security cooperation, including enhancing defence industrial collaboration.
They welcomed the forthcoming visit of the Italian aircraft carrier ITS Cavour and training ship ITS Vespucci to India later this year. Modi thanked the Italian govt for recognising the Indian Army's contribution in Italian Campaign during WW-II and informed that India will be upgrading the Yashwant Ghadge Memorial at Montone in Italy.
The leaders noted with satisfaction the regular higher political dialogue and reviewed progress of the India-Italy strategic partnership. "While expressing happiness at growing trade and economic collaboration, they called for expanding commercial ties in clean energy, manufacturing, space, science & technology, telecom, AI and critical minerals to build resilient supply chains. In this context, they welcomed the recent signing of an MoU on Industrial Property Rights that provides a framework for cooperation on patents, designs and trademarks," govt said.
They called for an early implementation of Migration and Mobility Agreement, which would facilitate mobility of professionals, skilled and semi-skilled workers, students and researchers. Both leaders look forward to joint activities to be implemented under Indo-Pacific Ocean Initiative framework to fulfil their shared vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific. "They also discussed important regional and global issues and agreed to strengthen cooperation in global fora and multilateral initiatives, including the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor," said an Indian readout.
#187
Samsung Electronics is shifting away from fossil fuels and aiming to entirely power its global operations with clean electricity by 2050, a challenging goal that experts say could be hampered by South Korea's modest climate change commitments. South Korea-based Samsung is a top producer of computer memory chips and smartphones and the second biggest energy consumer behind Walmart among hundreds of global companies that have joined the "RE100" campaign to get 100 per cent of electricity from renewable sources like wind or solar power.

In announcing its target on Thursday, the company said it aims to achieve net zero carbon emissions across its mobile device, television and consumer electronics divisions by 2030, and across all global operations including semiconductors by 2050.
It plans to invest 7 trillion won (USD 5 billion) through 2030 on projects aimed at reducing emissions from process gases, controlling and recycling electronic waste, conserving water and minimising pollutants.
It plans to develop new technologies to reduce power consumption in consumer electronics devices and data centres, which would require more efficient memory chips. It also will set long-term goals to reduce emissions in supply chains and logistics.
"Samsung is responding to the threats of climate change with a comprehensive plan that includes reducing emissions, new sustainability practices and the development of innovative technologies and products that are better for our planet," Jong-Hee Han, the company's CEO, said in an emailed statement.
Samsung's plan drew praise from some of its investors, including Dutch pension fund manager APG, which said the company could potentially make a "significant contribution" in cleaning up South Korea's electricity market, considering its impact and influence on the national economy.

Sam Kimmins, director of energy and head of RE100 at the London-based Climate Group, which leads the clean electricity initiative, said Samsung's commitment would send a message to others in the market that "it is possible, and critical, to switch to 100 per cent renewable electricity".
APG expressed concern, however, that Samsung's announcement comes at a time when South Korea has been dialling back on its climate change goals.
The conservative government of President Yoon Suk Yeol, who took office in May, has focused much of its energy policy on promoting nuclear-generated electricity.
Desperate to boost a weak economy, Yoon's government has also indicated reluctance to sharply reduce the country's dependence on coal and gas, which generate about 65 per cent of South Korea's electricity.
South Korea got 7.5 per cent of its electricity from renewable sources in 2021, significantly lower than the 30 per cent average among rich nations making up the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Yoon's government recently adjusted the country's renewable energy target to 21 per cent of the total energy mix by 2030, softening the 30 per cent target announced by his liberal predecessor, Moon Jae-in.
Samsung acknowledged it would have a harder time converting to renewable electricity sources at home than at its foreign operations, where it aims to get to 100 per cent clean energy by 2027.
It said renewable energy supplies in South Korea "have begun to expand but remain limited," while its electricity needs continue to rise as it boosts production at its domestic semiconductor lines to meet global demands.
"As a long-term investor in Korea, we are concerned about how the government plans to reconcile the industry's desperate need for clean electricity to stay relevant in the long run," Yoo-Kyung Park, APG's Asia Pacific head of responsible investment and governance, said in a statement.
Samsung, South Korea's biggest company, had faced growing pressure to do more to reduce its carbon emissions as it lagged behind some of its peers in climate commitments.
Those companies include Apple, a major buyer of Samsung's chips, which joined RE100 in 2016 and plans to be carbon neutral across its entire business and manufacturing supply chains by 2030, putting the pressure on its suppliers to meet those requirements.
Samsung is the crown jewel of an export-reliant economy driven by manufacturing of semiconductors, cars, display panels, mobile phones and ships, industries that tend to have high energy consumption.
Samsung used 25.8 terawatt hours of electricity for its operations last year, which was nearly twice the amount consumed by all households in the South Korean capital of Seoul and more than other global technology giants like Google, Apple, Meta, Intel, and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company.
Samsung's embrace of clean electricity could have significant supply chain effects, pushing other companies to boost their renewable energy supplies, said Ousam Jin from the Seoul-based Corporate Renewable Energy Foundation.
"Most meaningfully, Samsung's RE100 commitment sends a strong signal to the renewable energy market and policymakers to increase the supply of renewable energy considering the company's massive electricity usage," Jin said. (AP) PY PY
#188
Serentica Renewables on Monday said it has raised Rs 5,600 crore funding from state-owned firms REC and PFC.
It has raised Rs 3,000 crore debt funding from REC and Rs 2,600 crore debt funding from PFC, the company said in a statement.
"This transaction is in line with REC's expanding role in funding green projects and position itself as the focal agency for energy transition," Vivek Kumar Dewangan, Chairman & Managing Director, REC said.

Pratik Agarwal, Director, Serentica said, "With the funding secured, we will be accelerating the development of our first phase of projects, which will bring clean energy to hard-to-abate energy intensive industrial consumers and help them move towards a net-zero future."
Serentica is committed to developing 4GW of renewable energy capacities across the country to deliver round-the-clock green energy needs of its customers. The overall portfolio will supply more than 9 billion units (BUs) of clean energy annually, offsetting 8.5 million tonne of CO2.
Established in 2022, Serentica is a leading commercial and industrial sector (C&I) focused renewable energy developer in India.
#189
UK foreign secretary Liz Truss is on a two-day trip to India where she will meet external affairs minister S Jaishankar and environment minister Bhupender Yadav, announce UK investments in green tech infrastructure and clean energy transition in India to boost jobs and drive green growth and "express her hope that they will commit to a more ambitious nationally determined contribution".

On Friday Truss will meet Yadav in Delhi to discuss climate targets just days before the COP26 summit kicks off in Glasgow.
"She will underline the importance of making concrete progress on climate change and will note that India already leads the world in renewable technology and express her hope that they will commit to a more ambitious nationally determined contribution," a Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) spokesperson said.
Truss will announce a £11.5 million (Rs 119 crore) UK investment in two venture capital funds aimed at supporting India's transition to cleaner energy, a £50.4 million (Rs 521 crore) investment by the FCDO's investment arm, CDC, to fund green tech infrastructure projects across India, and a £500,000 (Rs 5.2 crore) UK investment to build a virtual network of UK and Indian labs working to promote net zero targets in industries including glass, cement, and metals.
"I want the UK and India to step up their partnership in critical areas like technology, investment, security and defence," Truss said. "India is the world's largest democracy, a tech and economic powerhouse and a vital strategic partner for the UK. Closer ties - including in areas like tech and infrastructure - will deliver jobs and growth in both countries, boost developing world economies and help us promote our values on the global stage," she added.

Truss will meet Jaishankar in Delhi when they will announce a new strategic futures forum, bringing together leading figures from government, business and academia in both countries, to drive closer links in areas like tech and security and shape the long-term vision for the UK-India partnership.
On Saturday Truss will be in Mumbai where she will visit the UK Carrier Strike Group on its most substantial port visit to date and speak to Indian business leaders at a "Build Back Better World" roundtable.
#190
Rajasthan has become a top producer of clean energy in India, with the share of fossil fuels in power generation hitting a record low of 50% from April to July 2023. Solar and wind power generation in the state grew by 28% year-on-year, producing 27 TWh in the same period. Combined with other clean sources, clean power generation in Rajasthan now equals that of fossil fuel-based generation. The state has attracted investments due to the rise in demand for clean power in other states and its high solar potential.
Rajasthan is emerging as top producer of clean energy in the country with the state focussing on harnessing more solar and wind energy. The share of fossil fuels in Rajasthan power generation mix has hit record low levels at 50% from April to July 2023, revealed new data from global energy think tank Ember released on Monday. This is the first time that the lowest level was sustained for over a quarter of the year.
Fossil fuels produced 34 TWh of electricity from January to July 2023, showing no growth (-1.6%) in comparison to the same period in 2022.

Meanwhile, solar and wind power generation grew 28% year-on-year, having produced 27 TWh in the same period this year. Just two years ago, solar and wind power generation was less than half of the current level. Combined with other clean sources (nuclear, hydro, bioenergy), clean power generation in Rajasthan now equals that of fossil fuel based generation.
From January to July 2023, electricity generation in Rajasthan increased by 4.4 TWh compared to the same period in 2022. The increase in power generation was entirely fuelled by growth in solar and wind power generation. As a result, the carbon emissions intensity of power produced in Rajasthan in July 2023 was 10% lower than in July 2022.
Ember states Rajasthan has pushed for deployment of solar and wind power fleets by administering its Solar Energy Policy and Wind Hybrid Energy Policy in 2019. In addition, the rise in demand for clean power in other states is attracting investments in Rajasthan, a state that boasts the highest solar potential across the country.
From January to July 2023, Rajasthan added 1.7 GW of solar and 0.5 GW of wind capacity. As of July 2023, Rajasthan's solar and wind capacity stood at 23 GW, accounting for 20% of India's solar and wind capacity. Expansion of solar and wind has made Rajasthan a top supplier of clean electricity in India. Meanwhile, fossil generation capacity - coal and gas - showed no change since 2022.
#191
Chinese premier Li Qiang concluded his Australian tour in Perth, emphasizing China's investments in critical minerals and clean energy. He visited Fortescue's clean energy facility and a lithium processing plant, amid Australia's concerns over Chinese influence in the sector. Tensions also arose over Chinese officials' interference with an Australian journalist.
Chinese premier Li Qiang ends his Australian tour on Tuesday in the West Coast city of Perth, where he will focus on China's investment in critical minerals and clean energy.
Li last week became the first Chinese premier to visit New Zealand then Australia in seven years. Later Tuesday, he is to become the first premier to visit Malaysia since 2015.
Li, China's second-most powerful leader after president Xi Jinping, will inspect iron ore miner Fortescue's clean energy research facility in Perth.
Fortescue's chairman Andrew Forrest said Li was interested in the company's plans to produce iron ore without carbon emissions and potentially "green iron."
"I think China chose us because it's not just the best technology to go green in Australia, it's the best technology to go green in the world, and we've got real examples of it in trains, ship engines, trucks," Fortescue said.
The Perth facility is testing technology on hydrogen, ammonia and batter power for trains, ships, trucks and heavy mining equipment.
Li will also visit Chinese-controlled tianqi lithium energy Australia's processing plant south of Perth to underscore China's interest in investing in critical minerals. The plant produces battery-grade lithium hydroxide for electric vehicles.

Australia shares US concerns over China's global dominance in critical minerals and control over supply chains in the renewable energy sector.
Citing Australia's national interests, treasurer Jim Chalmers recently ordered five Chinese-linked companies to divest their shares in the rare earth mining company Northern Minerals.
Prime minister Anthony Albanese wrote in an opinion piece published in Perth's main newspaper, The West Australian, on Tuesday that his government was acting to ensure foreign investment "continues to serve our national interests."
"This includes reforming the foreign investment framework so that it's more efficient, more transparent and more effective at managing risk," Albanese wrote.
Forrest said the national risk from Chinese investment in the critical minerals sector was overstated.
"Australia should be producing all the critical minerals in the world because we're a great mining country, so by all means let's go in harder after critical minerals, but let's not do it with panic because there is no reason for panic," Forrest said.
Qiang and Albanese flew to Perth in separate planes late Monday from the national capital Canberra, where the two leaders held an official annual meeting with senior ministers in Parliament House.
Albanese revealed that his office had complained to the Chinese Embassy about the behaviour of two officials during a media event with the two leaders after the meeting.
Australia had "concerns" about two Chinese officials who stood in the way of cameras taking images of well-known Australian journalist Cheng Lei sitting with other reporters as the leaders spoke, Albanese said.
Cheng spent more than three years in detention in China for breaking an embargo with a broadcast on a state-run TV network while she was based in Beijing. She was released last year after interventions by the Australian government and now works for Sky News Australia.
"When you look at the footage, it was a pretty clumsy attempt, frankly, by a couple of people to stand in between where the cameras were and where Cheng Lei was sitting," Albanese told Australian broadcasting corp.
"There should be no impediments to Australian journalists going about their job, and we've made that clear to the Chinese embassy," Albanese added.
Chinese-born, Cheng told Sky News on Monday, the officials "went to great lengths to block me from the cameras and to flank me."
"I'm only guessing that it's to prevent me from saying something or doing something that they think would be a bad look. But that in itself was a bad look," Cheng said.
The embassy did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Li and Albanese made statements during the press event, but neither took questions from the assembled journalists.
#192
UltraTech Cement will buy 26% in O2 Renewable Energy XXII for about Rs 16 crore to meet the energy needs of its plants. O2, registered in New Delhi in Aug 2023, is setting up a 35-48 megawatt solar power plant in Karnataka.UltraTech has been investing in clean energy units for sourcing power. It said the share-purchase of O2 is also to optimise energy costs and to comply with regulatory requirements related to captive power consumption under electricity laws.The $8-billion Aditya Birla Group company is India's largest cement producer. TNN
JSW Energy purchases Reliance Power's Vashpet wind asset for Rs 132 crore, with Adani Electricity pact. Sale to repay loans, asset mortgage settled with DBS bank. Last year, JSW Energy acquired assets from Ravi Kailas, Vashpet unit earned Rs 29 crore in FY23.
Energy Revolution: Adani Green Energy Gallery opens in London's Science Museum
Adani Green Energy Gallery at Science Museum London showcases renewable energy's impact on climate change, featuring historic objects, digital exhibits, and models. The gallery explores 'Future Planet' and 'Future Energy' sections, emphasizing sustainability and energy innovation for a greener future.
India outpacing world in renewable energy adoption: US envoy Garcetti
US Ambassador Garcetti highlights India's renewable energy leadership at US-India Forum, stressing collaboration with Washington for sustainable growth and climate action. He also emphasizes the importance of vibrant state-local partnerships in promoting clean energy and combating climate change.
#193
The Biden administration has approved the construction of the largest offshore wind farm in the United States. The Coastal Virginia Offshore Wind project by Dominion Energy will be located off Virginia Beach and is expected to generate five gigawatts of energy, supplying hundreds of thousands of homes with clean power. The approval is part of the govt's commitment to a clean energy future, creating jobs and addressing the climate crisis. The US aims to reach 30 gigawatts of wind energy by 2030.
President Joe Biden's administration on Tuesday approved a plan to build the United States' largest ever offshore wind farm, which would power hundreds of thousands of homes with clean energy.
Dominion Energy's Coastal Virginia Offshore Wind (CVOW) project is located 23.5 nautical miles off Virginia Beach and marks the fifth such offshore wind plan under the Biden administration, which has come under fire from environmentalists for also greenlighting several new major fossil fuel leases.

Interior Secretary Deb Haaland said in a statement the decision demonstrated the government's commitment to "the clean energy future," adding it would respond to the climate crisis, lower energy costs, and create new jobs.
The project is expected to provide hundreds of jobs in both the construction and operational phase, as well as generate regional economic development, the statement added.
In all, the five new offshore wind approvals are set to supply five gigawatts of energy to the national grid, with 2.6 gigawatts -- more than half -- from the CVOW.
The United States has set a goal of 30 gigawatts of wind energy by 2030, as part of its broader goal of meeting its commitments to net zero carbon emissions by 2050, and a carbon free power sector by 2035.
But the sector has been held back by bottlenecks in leasing and permitting projects. By comparison, Europe's wind industry is "decades ahead," according to an analysis by the Center for American Progress think tank, with 25 gigawatts generation capacity as of 2020, according to Wind Europe -- hundreds of times the current US capacity.

Bob Blue, Dominion Energy's chair, president and CEO said in a recent statement after the delivery of the first wind turbine foundations that the project "continues to move forward on time and on budget" with installation of the 176 turbines beginning in 2024 and expected to conclude in late 2026.
Dominion estimated it would power 660,000 homes.
The approval comes on the heels of an announcement last month the administration would auction three new oil and gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico, triggering a furious reaction from environmental groups who said the move would accelerate climate change.
Biden ordered a pause on new drilling soon after taking office, but analysts say he has been restricted in what he can accomplish because of court decisions overturning the pause and the delicate balance of power in Congress.
#194
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India is committed to its climate goals and the 'Gobar Dhan Yojana' will set a benchmark in sync with India's Swachh Bharat Mission goals to reduce air pollution and water pollution.
Addressing virtually an inauguration programme of solid waste based Gobar Dhan plant in Indore, the Prime Minister said, "As soon as the name of Indore came, the attention of Goddess Ahilyabai Holkar, Maheshwar and their service came first.
Indore changed over time, changed for the greater good, but didn't let the inspiration of Goddess Ahilya be lost. Along with Goddess Ahilya, today the name of Indore comes to mind - cleanliness."
"I am happy that a very beautiful statue of Goddess Ahilyabai Holkar ji has been kept in Kashi Vishwanath Dham. When the people of Indore go to see Baba Vishwanath, they will also see the idol of Goddess Ahilyabai there. You will be more proud of your city," he added.
PM Modi said that the government is working on introducing 75 more Bio-CNG plants in 75 other districts and villages to benefit farmers in the animal husbandry sector.
He further said that whether it is the wet waste that comes out of the houses in the city, the garbage from the livestock and farms in the village, all this is in a way cow dung.
"India is committed to its climate goals and hence the 'Gobar Dhan Yojana' will play a key role towards a sustainable lifestyle not only for the people but in restoring our land resources," said PM Modi.
He said that the Gobar Dhan plant will enable operation for 400 city buses and 1,500 small vehicles on CNG.

The Prime Minister said that this campaign will help a lot towards making India's cities clean, pollution-free, clean energy.
"The organic compost will help replace chemical fertilisers for agricultural and horticultural purposes and will create 'Green Jobs' for the youth of the nation," he said.
He said that to keep our cities clean, the efforts of cleaning the wet waste is very crucial.
"The Pashudhan waste from cities will be converted into Gobar-Dhan which will lead to clean fuels; ultimately leading to clean energy," he added.
The Prime Minister said that millions of tons of garbage have been engulfing thousands of acres of similar land for decades in cities across the country.
PM Modi said it is also a major reason for the diseases caused by air pollution and water pollution for the cities. Therefore work is being done to deal with this problem in the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission, he added.
The plant has the capacity to treat 550 tonnes per day of segregated wet organic waste. It is expected to produce around 17,000 kg per day of CNG and 100 tonnes per day of organic compost, the PMO informed.
The plant is based on zero-landfill models, whereby no rejects would be generated. Additionally, the project is expected to yield multiple environmental benefits- reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, providing green energy along with organic compost as fertilizer.
#195
The Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries (RIL) has announced that it is joining American business magnate Bill Gates for investing in Ambri, a Massachusetts-based energy storage company. Apart from the two billionaires, other investors such as New York-based hedge fund manager Paulson too have invested in Ambri.
Ambri has received a total funding of $144 million (Rs 1,100 crore), of which RIL contributed 35%, that is, $50 million (Rs 375 crore).
India's most valued company has routed the Ambri investment through its 100% arm Reliance New Energy Solar. Ambri is RIL's first investment in low-carbon technology after Ambani laid out a road map for a clean-energy play at the company's annual general meeting in June. The plan includes building a factory in Jamnagar, Gujarat, for the storage of intermittent energy.
RIL and Ambri are also exploring to set up a battery manufacturing facility in India, which "would bring down costs" for the former's green energy initiative, the Indian company said. Ambri, an MIT spin-out, will use the money to build manufacturing infrastructure in the US and in other countries. Ambri makes low-cost, durable battery systems that can last for long hours. This makes it suitable to meet the growing demand from the grid-scale energy storage market and from other customers like data centres.
The deal will give RIL access to Ambri's cost-efficient energy storage technology as the Indian company looks to decarbonise the existing business as well as build a green energy business. RIL said that Ambri's energy storage systems will break through the cost, longevity and safety barriers associated with lithium-ion batteries used in grid-scale storage applications and will enable a storage solution capable of supporting the increasing amounts of renewable energy being integrated into electric power grids.
Separately, Ambri has inked an agreement to source antimony, a key mineral used in battery chemistry, from Perpetua Resources, whose largest shareholder is Paulson. The calcium and antimony electrode-based cells and containerised systems are more economical than lithium-ion batteries.

#196
Former US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, on Tuesday, said that alternative clean energy is India's future and it would not burden the country. She spoke at a town hall organized at IIT Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn) on the theme' Insights from her journey'.
"Today India is well-positioned to adopt clean energy to achieve economic growth," Clinton said, citing the example of women at a salt pan farm in Gujarat's Surendranagar district who use solar-powered pumps. She had met them on Monday.
The opportunity for India to be a leader in clean energy is 'dramatically available' as it can bring down costs and decentralize clean power using creative thinking and scientific know-how of institutions like IITGn, she said, adding sustainable solutions should be adopted in daily life.
#197
Union minister R K Singh interacted with investors from the US and invited them to explore investment opportunities in the renewable energy and power sector in India. The power and new & renewable energy minister also highlighted India's achievement in the sector during his virtual meeting with the business community.
"The meeting provided an opportunity to the business community to interact with Union Minister on various aspects the renewable energy and power sector in India and the associated opportunities available to the global investors," a power ministry statement said.
Singh's meeting with the members of the US India Business Council (USIBC) had a theme "Advancing cleaner, more sustainable and affordable energy to mitigate climate change and power India's economic growth".
More than 50 industry leaders cutting across various sectors of the economy including information technology, infrastructure developers, renewable energy producers, banking, aviation participated in the event, the statement said.
During the meeting, Singh apprised the business leaders that India is on track to achieve the set renewable energy target of 450 GW by 2030 and said that electricity distribution reforms and the promotion of open access to the electricity grid will enhance the consumption of renewable energy.
He highlighted India's achievements in the field of renewable energy, energy access, energy efficiency, reduction in emission intensity and shared Government of India's plans to promote manufacturing and exports from India, including PLI scheme for manufacturing of solar cells, modules and batteries, and promotion of Green Hydrogen.
He welcomed ideas and suggestions for promoting the sector to meet the ambitious target of 450 GW.
The minister reiterated his commitment to further US and India's shared goals on climate change, clean energy and sustainability and the India-US Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.
The business leaders congratulated the Union minister on the recent achievement of 100 GW of installed renewable energy capacity. PTI KKS MKJ
#198
More than one third of the total power needs of Tamil Nadu was met on Wednesday by green energy -- wind and solar together -- as wind power generation picked up pace after a lull. While the overall power consumption was 372.226 million units (Mu) in the state on Wednesday, wind and solar power together was close to 130Mu.
Windmills contributed 105.138 million units (Mu) on Wednesday, the maximum ever recorded this year, and the power generation peaked at 5,110 megawatts (MW), also the maximum in the year so far.
This is the third time when wind power generation crossed 100Mu mark this year.
Solar power generation was 25.8 Mu due to overcast conditions in several parts of the state, and the peak generation was 3,752 MW.
The peak power demand has come down in the past few weeks due to rain in several districts, and 16,989MW was the peak demand on Wednesday.
Chennai's peak power demand was 4,062 MW, and consumption was 88.3Mu.
Tangedco officials said since wind generation was good, the excess energy was sold in the power exchange for up to Rs 10/unit.
Tamil Nadu Spinning Mills Association's chief advisor K Venkatachalam said, "It is good that wind generation has picked up. But without curtailment, the generation would have crossed 110Mu since the forecast was 108Mu."
The all-time high peak wind generation was 5,838MW, recorded on September 10, 2023. The maximum wind power evacuation of 120.25Mu in a day was on July 9, 2022.
#199
Japan's new energy policy aims to increase renewables to up to 50% of electricity needs by 2040 while maximizing nuclear power use, reversing post-Fukushima phaseout. The strategy includes next-gen reactors, solar batteries, and will face extensive anti-nuclear sentiment and safety challenges in achieving these goals.
A government-commissioned panel of experts on Wednesday largely supported Japan's new energy policy for the next few years that calls for bolstering renewables up to half of electricity needs by 2040 while maximizing the use of nuclear power as the country seeks to accommodate the growing power demand in the era of AI while meeting decarbonization targets.
The industry ministry presented the draft plan for final review by the panel of 16 mostly pro-nuclear members from business, academia and civil groups. It calls for maximizing the use of nuclear energy, reversing a phaseout policy adopted after the meltdown crisis at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant in 2011 that led to extensive displacement of residents and lingering anti-nuclear sentiment.
The plan is due to receive Cabinet approval by March after a period of consultation and will then replace the current energy policy, which dates from 2021. The new proposal says nuclear energy should account for 20 per cent of Japan's energy supply in 2040, up from just 8.5 per cent last year, while expanding renewables to 40-50 per cent from 22.9 per cent and reducing coal-fired power to 30-40 per cent from nearly 70 per cent last year.
The current plan set a 20-22 per cent target for nuclear energy, 36-38 per cent for renewables and 41 per cent for fossil fuel, for 2030.
Demand for low-carbon energy, such as renewables and nuclear, is growing because of the demand from data centers using AI and semiconductor factories around the country.
Industry minister Yoji Muto, who attended Wednesday's panel meeting, said Japan must strengthen its energy security by not relying too much on a single source.
"How we can secure decarbonized energy determines Japan's future growth," Muto said. "It's time to stop discussing a choice between renewable energy and nuclear power. We should maximize the use of both renewables and nuclear."
Japan has set a goal of achieving net zero emissions of climate-warming gases by 2050, and a 73 per cent reduction by 2040 compared to 2013 levels.
The draft energy plan places renewables as the main power source and calls for development of next-generation energy source, such as solar batteries and portable solar panels.
It outlines a number of risk scenarios, including a possibility of less-than-expected investment and cost reduction in renewables. However, some experts said the plan lacked a feasibility outlook for 2040 or a roadmap for the phaseout of fossil fuels.
The plan also calls for acceleration of the restarts of reactors that meet the post-Fukushima safety standards, and proposes construction of next-generation reactors, at plants where existing reactors are being decommissioned.
Still, to achieve the 20 per cent target, all 33 workable reactors in Japan must be back online, with only 14 back in service after the Fukushima disaster. Given the current pace of safety checks by the nuclear regulation authority, experts say meeting the target would be difficult.
Despite criticisms and skepticism about its feasibility, Japan still sticks to its pursuit of developing advanced reactors and a struggling spent fuel reprocessing program to achieve a complete nuclear fuel cycle.
#200
Vice President Kamala Harris and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator (EPA) Michael Regan on Thursday announced eight organizations that will oversee the spending of $20 billion in grants to fund tens of thousands of clean energy and transportation projects in disadvantaged communities across the United States.
"While every community has the capacity to join the clean energy economy, not every community has had the opportunity to do that," Harris said at an event on Charlotte announcing the grantees, adding that the funding reflects two Biden administration priorities - expanding access to capital and building a clean energy economy.

The $20 billion, made available through the $27 billion Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund (GGRF) created in the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, will largely be invested in projects ranging from home energy retrofitting programs to off-grid renewable energy in communities that have not had access to green financing.
The selected organizations will create a national clean financing network that will help kickstart projects over the next seven years that are expected to reduce or avoid up to 40 million metric tons of climate pollution annually.
Harris and Regan visited a home in the historically black neighborhood of Grier Heights in Charlotte, North Carolina, where homeowner has used the type of financing that will be made available through the GRRF to retrofit his home heating and energy systems to make it more efficient and affordable.
A local nonprofit, Self-Help, that helped him access funding years ago to retrofit his home, co-leads one Climate United, one of the eight organizations selected to distribute federal funding to help replicate the types of retrofits that have been happening in Grier Heights.

The EPA plans to get the money to the organizations by September this year. The GGRF has been a target of congressional Republicans, who passed a resolution this year attempting to repeal what they have called a climate "slush fund."
'Fierce urgency of climate change'
Three non-profit coalitions comprised of community development financial institutions, local green banks and other community lending organizations were chosen to distribute $14 billion from a National Clean Investment Fund (NCIF), that aims to support affordable clean technology projects nationwide.
Another five groups have been chosen to administer the $6 billion Clean Communities Investment Accelerator, which will provide funding and technical assistance to community lenders working to back clean technology projects in low-income and disadvantaged communities.
Harris said this was the first time federal dollars will be directly given to local non-profit organizations, who she said were best placed to make investments in their local communities.
Of the $20 billion, at least $4 billion will be dedicated to investment in rural communities and $1.5 billion will be directed to programs benefiting tribal nations.
The grantees are expected to mobilize almost $7 of private capital for every $1 of federal funds they spend.
William Barber, head of the Coalition for Green Capital - one of the selected organizations, said it was fitting that the announcement took place on the anniversary of the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr, and said the funding will help the US face the "fierce urgency of climate change."
"Climate change is no longer a distant threat but an accelerating reality," said Barber, who said the awards will unlock the power of private and public capital to help all communities be able to help tackle the issue.
#201
India's G20 Sherpa Amitabh Kant highlights that while there is no lack of global funds, there is a need to increase India's clean energy capacity to 750GW by 2030. He advocates for leveraging international financial institutions to attract private finance and calls for strong agreements between the Centre, states, and RBI.
There can be poverty of projects but there is no shortage of funds in the world, said India's G20 Sherpa Amitabh Kant, as he pitched for the need to reach 750GW of clean (non-fossil fuel) energy in India by 2030, much beyond the country's current target of 500GW.
He said $300 trillion is available globally and $150 trillion is available in sovereign funds and pension funds, noting that international financial institutions such as ADB and World Bank need to use guarantees and blended finance to allow much more private finance into the countries of global south, particularly India.
Kant was speaking here at a brainstorming session on climate action issues, organised by a Delhi-based think tank Climate Trends ahead of the upcoming G20 in Brazil and UN climate change conference (CO) in Azerbaijan, scheduled next month.
For India, he said, the country needs to have very strong tripartite agreement between the Centre, states and RBI to ensure private entities get some return on their investment.
Montek Singh Ahluwalia, economist and former deputy chairperson of the erstwhile Planning Commission, and R R Rashmi, TERI's distinguished fellow and India's former climate negotiator were also among those who shared their views on different aspects of climate actions and climate finance
#202
India's Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, has stated that India is well positioned to strengthen and diversify supply chains for clean energy products, which are currently dominated by China. India is ready to play a bigger role in the supply chains of clean energy products and has already announced the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme in some areas. India is also keen to engage with the IMF to facilitate domestic resource mobilization and work with developing countries.
Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said that India is well positioned to "strengthen and diversify supply chains" for clean energy products, a market that is currently dominated by China, the largest producer and exporter of solar and wind power equipment.
At the launch of "Partnership for Resilient and Inclusive Supply-chain Enhancement (RISE)", the FM said that India is in readiness to play a bigger role in the supply chains of clean energy products. The government has already announced PLI in some of these areas. The RISE partnership is an initiative of the World Bank and G7 under Japan's Presidency for developed & developing countries, to build momentum for enhanced collaboration on diversification of supply chain for clean energy products & tackling climate change.
Countries such as India, Japan, Australia and the US are already collaborating to diversify their supply chains across product categories to reduce their dependence on China.
Speaking at another event here, the FM also expressed India's keenness to engage with IMF to work with developing countries in facilitating domestic resource mobilisation as endorsed by G20 leaders. She also appreciated the IMF's role with regard to policy work for crypto assets and the related G20 road map for global coordination within and beyond G20 countries.
On the sidelines of the 4th G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (FMCBG) meeting, a high-level dialogue on capacity building and the two-pillar solution was organised. The meeting discussed the broad agenda for capacity building in relation to the two-pillar international tax package. Revenue secretary Sanjay Malhotra chaired the event and stressed that intensive capacity-building initiatives are imperative for the effective implementation of the two-pillar international tax package.
The panel, comprising the finance deputies from Indonesia, the UK, the UN, and the World Bank, highlighted the feasibility and potential impact on developing countries of strategic responses, such as the adoption and design of optional provisions in the two-pillar package, the use of simplified approaches to protect the corporate tax base, and redesign of investment tax incentives. 
#203
These figures indicate that the technology sector is outpacing other industries in buying clean power. However, the adoption of clean energy has been increasing across all industries, the report adds. The amount of wind and solar energy bought by companies has increased by an average of 73% per year between 2012 to 2022.
Tech majors like Amazon, Meta and Google have been the biggest investors in clean energy, including wind and solar power. According to a report by an industry group, named the American Clean Power Association (spotted by CNBC), Amazon, Facebook's parent company Meta and Google which is a subsidiary of Alphabet have been listed as the top three corporate purchasers of wind and solar energy.
Here are the details about the clean energy purchases made by different countries:
Clean energy purchase: How much did each company buy
As per the report, these companies announced their plans to buy wind and solar power last decade. Up until September 2022, Amazon had contracted 12.4 gigawatts of clean (wind and solar) energy in the US. On the other hand, Meta managed to buy 8.7 gigawatts and Google bought 6.2 gigawatts of clean energy.
These figures indicate that the technology sector is outpacing other industries in buying clean power. However, the adoption of clean energy has been increasing across all industries, the report adds. The amount of wind and solar energy bought by companies has increased by an average of 73% per year between 2012 to 2022. The report also claims that clean energy procurement surpassed 1 gigawatt in 2015, 8 gigawatts in 2018, and almost reached 20 gigawatts in 2022.
Why tech companies are switching to clean energy
The reason for tech companies to be inclined towards clean power is not only just to save the world from climate change but is also dependent on the price. The report claims that the price of clean power has been falling steadily. In the last decade, the cost of wind and solar energy has gone down by 71% and 47%, respectively.

When it comes to buying clean energy, the technology sector has been the leader by contracting 48% of all wind and solar power. Meanwhile, the energy, telecom and food and beverage sectors have been the next largest corporate buyers with 9%, 8% and 7% of total contracted wind and solar power, respectively.
To sum up, 326 companies in total have contracted 77.4 gigawatts of wind and solar energy by the end of 2022. This much energy is enough to power over a thousand data centres or 18 million US homes, the report adds.
#204
Microsoft and Brookfield's renewable energy agreement involves a significant capacity supply, solidifying Microsoft's position in clean energy procurement. The deal showcases the industry's focus on sustainability and meeting energy demands for advancing technologies like AI.
Microsoft Corp and Brookfield Asset Management's renewable energy arm has signed a record-breaking clean energy agreement, according to a statement released Wednesday. The partnership comes as Microsoft ramps up its investment in artificial intelligence, Bloomberg reported.
Tech companies are increasingly seeking clean energy solutions to meet their own sustainability goals while grappling with rising overall energy demands.
What makes the deal huge
This deal will see Brookfield Renewable Partners supply over 10.5 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity in the US and Europe beginning in 2026. That's roughly equivalent to the output of 10 nuclear power plants and reflects the skyrocketing demand for data center and AI-related electricity, Bloomberg noted.
"This is undeniably the largest single corporate clean-power purchase agreement ever announced," said Bloomberg analyst Kyle Harrison. "This solidifies Microsoft's position as the second-largest corporate buyer of clean energy" via power purchase agreements, following Amazon, Bloomberg added.
Estimating the cost of such a massive renewable energy project (10.5 gigawatts) is challenging due to variations in development costs based on location and energy type. However, BloombergNEF suggests that if the entire project were comprised of US solar farms, the construction cost would exceed $11.5 billion. Building the same capacity with wind power in the US would push the cost closer to $17 billion.

Microsoft's heavy investment in AI development and the data centers required to support it stems from their belief in AI as a key tool to attract customers for their cloud computing services.
Running AI tools requires immense resources, and many companies lack the data center capacity to handle large-scale AI operations in-house. This is why they are increasingly turning to big tech companies like Microsoft, Google, and Amazon for cloud-based AI solutions.
Just last week, Microsoft reported a 17% jump in third-quarter revenue, reaching $61.9 billion, driven by a surge in demand for its cloud and AI offerings from corporations. Similarly, Amazon's cloud unit experienced its strongest sales growth in a year on Tuesday.
Microsoft and Brookfield said the agreement dwarfs any previous corporate clean energy purchase deal by nearly eight times its size. The deal also has the potential to expand and include new renewable energy capacity in Asia and Latin America, the companies added.
The focus will be on wind and solar power, but the accord also paves the way for "new or impactful carbon free energy generation technologies," according to the companies.
#205
India and Australia on Monday agreed to a partnership to strengthen their co-operation in developing critical metal projects and supply chains, Australia's resources minister said.
Demand for critical metals like lithium and cobalt has soared in recent times due to their usage in electric vehicles amid a global push towards cleaner sources of energy to tackle climate change.

At the same time, countries like the United States, Australia and India are pushing to develop new sources of critical minerals to counteract China's dominance over those supply chains.
Minister Madeleine King said Australia would commit A$5.8 million ($3.98 million) towards a three-year investment partnership, while signing an agreement between critical minerals firm Khanij Bidesh India Ltd and the Critical Minerals Facilitation Office of Australia (CMFO).
Both the Indian company and CMFO will jointly fund a due diligence study in lithium and cobalt mineral assets of Australia with an initial amount of $6 million.
"Once the due diligence is completed and potential projects are identified, we will explore investment opportunities through different methods as envisaged in the MoU (memorandum of understanding)," said minister King.
#206
NVVNL's Rs 500 crore waste-to-charcoal plants in Bandhwari and Faridabad's Motuka will process 2,700 tonnes daily. An MoU with local corporations was signed. Certain types of waste are excluded; environmental clearance is required. A solid waste exigency was declared. Environmentalists doubt the project's efficiency. It aims to provide a permanent waste solution and boost energy production. Officials attended.
Waste-to-charcoal plants, also known as green coal plants, will be built at the Bandhwari landfill site and Faridabad's Motuka in 30 months by Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd (NVVNL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NTPC, at a cost of Rs 500 crore each.
An MoU was signed between NVVNL and the municipal corporations of Gurgaon and Faridabad in Chandigarh on Saturday in presence of Haryana chief minister Nayab Singh Saini and Union minister for housing, urban affairs and power Manohar Lal Khattar.
Officials said the two plants will convert a total of 2,700 tonnes of waste collected from Gurgaon (1,500 tonnes) and Faridabad (1,200 tonnes) daily, according to officials. The corporations will hand over 20 acres of land each to NVVNL for setting up the plants. At Bandhwari, the plant will be constructed at the site earmarked for the waste-to-energy plant earlier.
NVVNL, however, has clarified that solid waste transported to the plants should not include inert and other kinds of waste, including construction and demolition (C&D) waste, hospital and bio-hazardous waste, asbestos, electronic waste and heavy metals. The corporations have been directed, as per the agreement, to provide dry waste to the maximum extent possible. This will be a challenge for both corporations, since mixed waste is transported to Bandhwari at present. The corporations will also have to obtain environmental clearance from the Union environment ministry for the plants.
The development comes at a time when the city is facing a solid waste management crisis. On June 12, the state govt had declared a solid waste exigency in Gurgaon in view of the "alarming" levels of untreated garbage in the city under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.
According to officials, a similar plant is already operational in Varanasi. "NTPC is operating a plant in Varanasi that is producing charcoal from 600 tonnes of waste daily. But the two plants to be established in Haryana will be the largest in India, producing charcoal from 1,500 tonnes of waste daily," said Renu Narang, the CEO of NVVNL.
"The plants will not only provide a permanent solution to the waste problem, but will also increase energy production," CM Saini said.
Environmentalists, meanwhile, opposed the project. "The major concern is that converting waste to charcoal is not a tried-and-tested project. There is no report suggesting that the Varanasi plant is a success," said Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based environmental activist.
#207
Taking note of the poor air quality in various parts of the country and its impacts on human health, a Compendium on Air Pollution was released and a Charter of Demands was deliberated upon by the MPs at a two-day Clean Air workshop for the Members of Parliament (MPs) from 25th - 26th March 2023 at Gurgaon. The workshop was hosted by the Parliamentarians' Group for Clean Air (PGCA) and facilitated by Swaniti Initiative, which serves as the Secretariat to the PGCA.
The charter will be presented to the Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupender Yadav and several state governments by the MPs. The Compendium was drafted under the guidance of PGCA with the joint efforts from Swaniti Initiative; Climate Trends; CII Cleaner Air- Better life, and numerous other experts. The monitoring indicators mentioned in the Compendium are aimed to enable the MPs to monitor the programs related to air quality in their respective constituencies and hence strengthen the Government's efforts.
The compendium has 14 monitoring groups and gives actionable indicators on how the MPs can check the status of the problem and the progress of solutions as outlined in the various policies of the government. The monitoring groups include - Monitoring Air Quality, Road Dust and Construction Activities, Open Waste Burning, Industrial Air Pollution Control, Green Cover Plan, Public Transport and Electric Vehicles, Crop Residue Burning, Clean Energy, Resources with ULBs, Mining, Public Health, Training and Capacity Building and Evaluation of Existing Programs.
The workshop witnessed the presence of Gaurav Gogoi, MP and convener of PGCA, and other member of the group including MPs representing different zones and political parties including Pradyut Bordoloi, Hasnain Masoodi, Shyam Singh Yadav, Kalanidhi Veeraswamy, Sujeet Kumar, Jagannath Sarkar, Mahua Maji, and Indra Hang Subba,
Speaking about the workshop, Gogoi said, "We are really encouraged to see the MPs coming together for the Clean Air workshop. The alarming levels of air pollution have been a growing concern for our country, and it's time we address it collectively. The workshop facilitated by Swaniti Initiative, under the guidance of the PGCA, has been a significant step towards achieving our goal of Clean Air. We hope to see more initiatives and actions taken to combat air pollution for a healthy future for our citizens."
The key highlights of the Charter are; integration of air quality with public health in policy matters, the installation of appropriate infrastructure in rural and urban areas alike to capture even finer pollutants; heeding the airshed approach at the municipal or city-level; international cooperation to reduce the effects of transboundary effects of air pollution; partnerships of industries with the Government and other stakeholders to adopt clean air initiatives. The launch of the said two documents is an earmark for achieving the goal of Clean Air at national and regional levels through achieving the goals of collaboration and cooperation among all the stakeholders.
#208
Panjab University has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Climate Compatible Growth (CCG), UK, to advance clean energy transitions and foster sustainable development in India.
The MoU was signed during the North India Inception Workshop organised by the department of environmental studies, Panjab University, in collaboration with the Climate Compatible Growth Network, UK, and the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh.
CCG is a UK aid-funded project aimed at supporting investments in sustainable energy and transport systems to meet development priorities in the global south. tnn
LU signs MoU University of Madeira for pharma research
Lucknow University and the University of Madeira, Portugal, have partnered to boost pharmaceutical research and education. This collaboration will facilitate joint research projects, publications, and exchange programs for students and faculty. The focus is on pharmaceutical sciences, with opportunities for young researchers to engage in chemistry research and receive residential training in Madeira.
Climate & Energy Transition Finance Initiative
Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma championed green investments and technological solutions for climate change at a summit in New Delhi. He emphasized Meghalaya's vulnerability to climate change impacts due to heavy rainfall while highlighting the state's green initiatives, including the Green Meghalaya Project and investments in sustainable infrastructure.
MoU signed to transform law enforcement process
Chanakya National Law University (CNLU) partnered with Gravitas AI and Triculin Technologies to enhance law enforcement using AI. This collaboration will develop AI tools for the Indian legal system, aiming to streamline processes and improve efficiency and access to information.
#209
According to state government estimates, the state will require $20-25 billion of investments by 2030 to set up just 1 MMTPA of green hydrogen capacity
Launching the Gujarat Green Hydrogen Mission on Friday, chief minister Bhupendra Patel said that the state has set a target of producing 3 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA) of green hydrogen by 2030 and has allocated two lakh hectares of land for this purpose.
According to state government estimates, the state will require $20-25 billion of investments by 2030 to set up just 1 MMTPA of green hydrogen capacity.
This initiative will include 8-10GW of installed capacity of electrolysers costing more than Rs 45,000 crore and 20-30GW of insta lled renewable energy capacity.
Addressing the 'Gujarat: The Green Hydrogen Destination of India' seminar, CM Patel said, "Gujarat is giving incentives for the production of electrolysers. We have allotted a budget of Rs 2 lakh crore for green growth sectors over the next five years. Green hydrogen will ensure energy security, clean energy and net zero." The Prime Minister has set a target of 5 MMTPA hydrogen production by 2030. Gujarat has set itself an ambitious target of producing 3 MMTPA of hydrogen to meet this target, said the CM.
Mamta Verma, principal secretary of energy and petrochemicals department, said the state has already floated a pilot project for producing 7.58 tonnes of green hydrogen per day and is also studying the feasibility of blending hydrogen with Piped Natural Gas (PNG).
V K Saraswat, NITI Aayog member, said, "To achieve the 2030 vision, we have to reduce the cost of electrolysers by about 80%. We must improve its efficiency and give electricity at around Rs 2 per unit."
#210
BMC's LT Market at Grant Road will get a bio-methanation plant with a capacity of 1.5 tonnes per day (TPD) which will generate electricity from municipal organic wet waste. The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (MMRCL) has taken this initiative in cooperation with the BMC to set up the plant under its Corporate Environment Responsibility programme.
The project is undertaken to comply with the green clearance granted for redevelopment of the building at Kalbadevi-Girgaon (K3 building).

The biogas produced under this waste-to-energy project will be utilised to generate electricity to light up LT market at Grant Road.
MMRCL's director of planning, R Ramanna, stated, "This project will facilitate production of clean energy and provide environmentally sound management of municipal organic wet waste. It will also help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, transportation costs of waste, and provide a cost-effective solution for environmental protection."
MMRCL has awarded installation, operation, and maintenance work to M/s Aerocare Aviation Services Pvt. Ltd. The total cost of installation, operation, and maintenance is Rs 74.6 lakh, and the plant is expected to generate 80-100 kWh per hour. - Manthan K Mehta
Bio-methanation Plant to come up at BMC's LT Market to Generate Clean Energy
BMC's LT Market at Grant Road gets a bio-methanation plant generating electricity from organic waste as part of Mumbai Metro Rail Corp's environmental compliance. The project promotes clean energy production and environmentally sound waste management, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and transportation costs. The plant will be installed and maintained by M/s Aerocare Aviation Services Pvt. Ltd.
Government cancels four waste to energy proposals in Bengaluru
The state government decided to scrap four waste-to-energy plants in Bengaluru for missing deadlines and failing to start their projects in the City. The government retained the fifth company due to a delay in providing land parcels for the project.
State govt provides relief for weavers by granting Rs.94 paise subsidy per unit
The Government of Andhra Pradesh grants Rs.94 paise subsidy per unit of electricity to loom weavers. State tourism minister and Nagari legislator RK Roja thanked Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy for providing relief to the weavers community in Nagari assembly constituency, where 16000 looms support 25000 families.
#211
While the country's transition towards renewables is exhibiting some bright spots with solar becoming mainstream in India, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh are the four states which account for the majority of shortfall in the clean energy target.
The latest analysis by global energy think tank Ember says the country has witnessed strong solar growth this year, with new solar installations rising by 22% in the first eight months of the year as compared to the same period last year.

"Solar represented 89% of new renewable capacity installations this year. However, wind installations hardly rose by 7% compared to last year, now representing only 10% of all new renewables installations so far," the analysis stated.
With Gujarat being the latest state to meet its 2022 clean energy target, the country now has four states, including Telangana, Rajasthan and Karnataka, fulfilling its commitments. On the other hand, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh account for 61% of the current shortfall. "If these states continue to see such low installation rates, it will take them decades to meet even their December 2022 target - 20 years for Maharashtra, 80 years for Uttar Pradesh, 44 years for Andhra Pradesh and 55 years for Madhya Pradesh," analysts found.
They further revealed that Maharashtra has the biggest shortfall of 11.1 gigawatt (GW) on its December 2022 target, despite having a 10.9 GW installed capacity of renewables. "So far, the state has installed only 3% (0.3 GW) of India's total new renewables this year," the analysis stated.
Rajasthan and Gujarat seem to be powering India's transition. In the first eight months of this year, 49% of India's new solar capacity was built in Rajasthan and 63% of India's new wind was built in Gujarat.
While the analysis stated that India might not reach 175GW target by the end of 2022, it highlighted that the country's 2030 targets of 450GW renewables and 500GW non-fossil capacity are well within reach. "It would require key states to seize the opportunity and address the barriers to renewables. India's renewables future is exciting, but it needs more national and local government focus to make it happen," it added.

Data showed that overall renewable installations also slowed considerably from April 2022, in part due to an increase in the basic customs duty. By July 2022, India saw the lowest level of new installations since June 2020, before picking up in August.
Stressing on the need to ramp up the addition of renewables, Ember's senior electricity policy analyst Aditya Lolla said, "India's solar rush earlier this year shows how quickly change can come. It has even led to a record renewable energy capacity addition of 3.5GW in March this year. For India to achieve its ambitious 2030 clean energy and non-fossil capacity targets, the country needs to consistently hit this all-time record set in March."
#212
With an aim to make Punjab a leading state in clean energy production and reduce reliance on fossil fuels, Punjab govt will set up 66 solar power plants, each with a 4 MW capacity, said new and renewable energy sources minister Aman Arora.
The minister said that the project will be completed by the end of Dec 2025. Upon completion, these solar plants will generate 400 million units (MU) of electricity annually. By implementing feeder-level solarisation, these solar power plants will also help in compensating the state around Rs 176 crore agricultural subsidy bill annually. This will contribute significantly to the region's renewable energy capacity, besides reducing dependence on fossil fuels and lowering carbon emissions. Energy generated from these solar power plants shall be counted towards achieving the targets under the Distributed Energy Component of Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) in the state.
Arora directed the PEDA officials to put every effort into the smooth and timely execution of the project. The endeavour will attract investments of around Rs 1,056 crore in the state, paving the way for the creation of job opportunities for both skilled and semi-skilled individuals in the realm of non-conventional energy within the state, he added.
With an aim to make Punjab a leading state in clean energy production and reduce reliance on fossil fuels, Punjab govt will set up 66 solar power plants, each with a 4 MW capacity, said new and renewable energy sources minister Aman Arora.
The minister said that the project will be completed by the end of Dec 2025. Upon completion, these solar plants will generate 400 million units (MU) of electricity annually. By implementing feeder-level solarisation, these solar power plants will also help in compensating the state around Rs 176 crore agricultural subsidy bill annually. This will contribute significantly to the region's renewable energy capacity, besides reducing dependence on fossil fuels and lowering carbon emissions. Energy generated from these solar power plants shall be counted towards achieving the targets under the Distributed Energy Component of Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) in the state.
Arora directed the PEDA officials to put every effort into the smooth and timely execution of the project. The endeavour will attract investments of around Rs 1,056 crore in the state, paving the way for the creation of job opportunities for both skilled and semi-skilled individuals in the realm of non-conventional energy within the state, he added.
#213
Jharkhand will be worst impacted in the course of transition from coal-based economy to renewable energy sources, according to a report on how the switch might affect people's livelihoods.
As India pledges to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2070 at the UN Climate Change Conference UK2021, the gradual phasing out of coal is imminent. However, this process of phasing out, aimed at achieving cleaner environment, may come at the cost of livelihood of millions of people dependent on coal.
On Monday, Union coal secretary Dr Anil Jain released a report in New Delhi based on the study of possible impact on the coal-bearing districts during this phasing out.

The report prepared by National Foundation for India (NFI) paints a dismal future of Jharkhand where 15 out of 24 districts are going to be impacted, with four - Ranchi, Koderma, Pakur and Palamu - identified to be highly vulnerable.
The study titled - Socio economic impacts of coal transition in India - bottom-up analysis of jobs in coal and coal consuming industries focussed on around 266 coal-bearing districts in nine states - Jharkhand, Odisha, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and parts of UP. The analysis done on the basis of dependency on coal revealed that 135 out of these 266 districts are going to be impacted severely because the dependency on coal.
"Coal transitions in India are likely to be a messy and complicated exercise. At a conservative estimate, more than 13 million people are employed in coal mining, transport, power, sponge iron, steel, and bricks sectors," the report reads.
In case of Jharkhand, the four districts in highly vulnerable category - Ranchi, Palamu, Koderma and Pakur - have a large chuck of labour force dependent on coal mine and more than one coal-based industry while in three districts - Deoghar, Seraikela and Latehar - labourers are dependent on coal mines and at least one coal-based industry making them moderately vulnerable. Seven more districts - Giridih, Hazaribag, Ramgarh, Singhbhum, Godda , Dhanbad, CHatra and Bokaro have been placed in least-vulnerable district category, though the transition is going to be a challenge there as well.
However, labour rights activist and state convener of NREGA watch, James Herenj, believes that when coal usage is phased out, the alternate energy resources would replace it and the new sector would have an equal potential to employ people. "We have been protesting opening of new mines as it causes displacement. Our people have paid a very high price for these mines. They could not earn much as labourers in these mines, so a phase out is going to be positive for them," he said.
#214
CM Mohan Yadav on Friday engaged in detailed discussions with a German firm on the potential implementation of clean energy technologies in Madhya Pradesh, and ways to meet the increasing demand for renewable energy.
Yadav, who is leading the 'Invest Madhya Pradesh' delegation, visited SFC Energy in Brunnthal, near Munich. The company is a leader in manufacturing direct methanol and hydrogen fuel cells. SFC Energy CEO Peter Podessar provided an overview of the company's key technologies and their innovations in the clean energy sector.
The CM also met with Baerlocher Group, a prominent German company specialising in plastic additives. Baerlocher has been operating a unit in Dewas since 2001 and has invested over Rs 400 crore in the state, creating more than 300 jobs.
During the meeting, discussions focused on Baerlocher's expansion opportunities, the use of innovative technologies, and the adoption of eco-friendly solutions.
Yadav described his visit to Germany as a significant step for Madhya Pradesh's economic and industrial development. He emphasised that the partnership with German companies would bring new advancements in green energy and cutting-edge technologies to the state.
The visit is also expected to play a key role in achieving the goals set for 'Industry Year 2025' in Madhya Pradesh, he said.
Besides, Yadav had a warm and engaging conversation with the Indian expatriate community, 'Friends of MP,' in Munich. Moving beyond formalities, he discussed India's rich culture and traditions in an informal and friendly manner.
Yadav expressed pride in the achievements of over 2 lakh Indian expatriates and more than 35,000 Indian students in Germany, who are excelling in education and skills, setting a strong example of excellence.
#215
Highlighting the severe damage being caused to environment and public health by the Koradi Thermal Power Plant, organizations opposing its expansion have warned of "using democratic and legal means" to save the region from further pollution.
Highlighting the severe damage being caused to environment and public health by the Koradi Thermal Power Plant, organizations opposing its expansion have warned of "using democratic and legal means" to save the region from further pollution.
In a press conference held on Friday, around 15 NGOs, activists and members of a residential society came together to demand immediate cancellation of the proposed two units of 660 megawatt (MW) each.
Stressing that Nagpur was among one of the most polluted cities in the state as per the World Health Organization (WHO), the organizations, under the aegis of 'Koradi Climate Crisis', stated that the new units will only lead to more deterioration of air and water quality.
Countering the claims in the project's Environment Impact Assessment's (EIA) report, the crusaders stated that there was no shortage of power in the state. "Many power plants are closed down for want of demand. Nagpur district already has installed capacity to produce more than 7,000 MW of power from coal," they said.The environmentalists slammed the authorities for not tapping clean energy sources to the fullest. "The state is lagging when it comes to meeting the targets for renewable energy. Despite having immense potential, solar power is not explored to the desired extent. Moreover, rooftop solar power is discouraged by power distribution companies," they said.
Earlier in their letter to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, the environmentalists had also pointed out that as the government plans to operate at least 30% of agricultural feeders in each district on solar energy by December 2025 under Mukhyamantri Saur Krishi Vahini Yojana 2.0, there would be no need of new coal units.
TOI has also been reporting about the large-scale fly-ash pollution that is being caused from the power plant. "More than 50,000 tonne fly ash is being generated per day which is being dumped in ash ponds as fly-ash utilization is negligible. Also, huge quantity of water meant for irrigation is diverted for power generation," the agitators stated.
#216
The Oil India Limited (OIL) in collaboration with the Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (HPPCL) is establishing one megawatt (MW) - 400 kg per day - capacity green hydrogen plant at Baddi in Solan district of Himachal Pradesh, informed Union minister of state for new and renewable energy and power Shripad Yesso Naik.Speaking in the Rajya Sabha, Naik said the central govt had not sanctioned any project under the National Green Hydrogen Mission in Himachal Pradesh till now. He, however, informed that the Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (SJVNL) and OIL had independently undertaken initiatives for setting up green hydrogen projects in Himachal Pradesh. Naik was responding to a question by Sikander Kumar, Rajya Sabha member from Himachal Pradesh.The SJVNL, last year, inaugurated India's first multi-purpose (combined heat and power) green hydrogen pilot project at its 1,500 megawatt (MW) Nathpa Jhakri Hydro Power Station at Jhakri, Himachal Pradesh.The Himachal Pradesh govt has incorporated provisions in the Himachal Pradesh Energy Policy 2021 to promote green hydrogen energy storage, said Naik.He informed that the Centre was implementing the National Green Hydrogen Mission with an objective to make India a global hub of production, usage, and export of green hydrogen and its derivatives. The Union cabinet approved the National Green Hydrogen Mission in Jan 2023 with an overall outlay of Rs 19,744 crore, said Naik.We also published the following articles recently
Am Green signs PPA with Gentari for 650mw clean energy to power green ammonia plant
AM Green Ammonia India Pvt Ltd inked a deal with Gentari to secure 650 MW of continuous carbon-free energy for its upcoming green ammonia plants. Gentari will build a massive 2400 MWp renewable energy project, combining solar and wind power, coupled with substantial energy storage.
Irked by 'simple' invite, Himachal Pradesh governor skips civic body Ambedkar event
Himachal Pradesh Governor Shiv Pratap Shukla boycotted an event commemorating Dr. B.R. Ambedkar's death anniversary due to perceived disrespect. Shukla expressed displeasure over the invitation, which listed Chief Minister Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu as the chief guest and lacked the courtesy expected for the state's first citizen.
Himachal Pradesh high court raises alarm over staff vacancies at IGMC Trauma Centre
Himachal Pradesh High Court expressed shock over severe staff shortages at IGMC Shimla's Trauma Centre, with only 44 out of 179 sanctioned medical and paramedical staff present. The court criticized the state government's handling of the situation and demanded immediate action. Critical positions, including nurses, surgeons, and technicians, remain vacant, impacting patient care.
#217

Compressed biogas (CBG) and green coal (torrefied charcoal) will be made from 800 tonnes of waste coming out of Noida daily, officials have said. Besides, the Noida Authority will save Rs 29 crore annually in processing municipal solid waste once a CBG plant and a green coal plant become functional here.
#218
The health and solid waste management committee of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) approved a proposal to extend the deadline for the waste-to-energy project by Abellon Clean Energy Ltd to March 31, 2025, during its meeting on Wednesday.
In 2012, the civic body had approved the project to set up a plant to process 1,000 metric tonnes (MT) of solid waste a day to produce electricity.
Despite multiple extensions, the company was supposed to have the plant operational by Sept 30, 2023, but failed to do so.
The deadline has been extended again to March 31, 2025.
This proposal will now be presented to the standing committee and the extension will be valid upon their approval.
In 2012, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation had chosen Abellon Clean Energy to set up a plant to generate electricity from 1,000 MT of solid waste each day.
An agreement was signed in 2013, but the company failed to build the plant within the stipulated time and the civic body extended the deadline.
Invested Rs 11crore to tackle solid waste with CCP: Smart City
Learn about the partnership between IPSCDL and CCP to improve waste management in Panaji. Funding of Rs 11 crore has been allocated for bio-methanation plants, composter machines, and other equipment. The initiative aims to address the processing gap of organic waste in the city.
Why Trump seeks to disavow 'Project 2025'
Learn about Project 2025, a comprehensive plan by conservative groups aiming to reshape the federal government. Former President Trump has distanced himself from the proposal, while President Biden warns of its implications. Discover the key figures and proposed changes in this controversial project.
2 firms eye green energy projects worth 18,000cr at Butibori estate
Discover the latest developments in Nagpur's renewable energy sector as two companies eye land for manufacturing units with a total investment of 18,000 crore. Find out more about Avaada Energy's solar cell plant and another group's hydrogen generation plant proposals, shaping the state's economic landscape.
#219
The state-run power utility, Tangedco, on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding with Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency, a government of India enterprise, to provide advisory services to Tangedco to augment the capacity with new projects and technology in the

Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency to provide advisory services to Tangedco to augment the capacity with new projects and technology in the sector
The state-run power utility, Tangedco, on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding with Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency, a government of India enterprise, to provide advisory services to Tangedco to augment the capacity with new projects and technology in the sector.
The MoU was signed in the presence of chief minister M K Stalin at the Secretariat.

"To become self-sufficient in meeting the energy needs of the state, and reduce the amount spent on power purchase, the Tangedco has planned to augment its renewable energy sources by 25,000MW in the next 10 years. This includes 20,000MW solar energy, 3,000MW of hydro power and 2,000MW electricity generated by gas turbines. It has been estimated that Tangedco will have to raise 1.32 lakh crore funds," said an official release. Electricity minister V Senthil Balaji, Tangedco CMD Rajesh Lakhoni and IREDA CMD Pradip Kumar Das were present
The plan is that IREDA will provide advisory services in matters relating to assistance in market assessment, assessment support in project development, assistance in bid process management and implementation support. In debt raising, the agency will provide support in understanding the market instrument, undertake due diligence activities and prepare the information memorandum for raising funds.
The state government is keen on investing in renewable energy given that its own generation from thermal power stations is only 4,320MW, as against the average demand of 15,000MW.
#220
Uttar Pradesh's energy transition is gaining momentum with major players investing in renewable energy sources.In the third version of the groundbreaking ceremony, investment proposals worth Rs 4,782 crore for clean energy projects were received by the state.
Uttar Pradesh's energy transition is gaining momentum with major players investing in renewable energy sources.
In the third version of the groundbreaking ceremony, investment proposals worth Rs 4,782 crore for clean energy projects were received by the state.
Due to favourable environment and cooperation extended by the state government to the investors, Uttar Pradesh has become a preferred investment destination for renewables, sustainable and green energy development.


There are 23 projects in the renewable energy sector coming up in 21 districts -- Jalaun, Mau, Ballia, Azamgarh, Sitapur, Jhansi, Banda, Fatehpur, Kanpur, Noida, Auraiya, Sonbhadra, Agra, Ambedkarnagar, Badaun, Mahoba, Mirzapur, Pilibhit, Pratapgarh, Shahjahanpur, and Unnao.
Under the category of projects worth more than Rs 500 crore, Jalaun has the largest investment with 2 solar plants at 2 villages in Orai by hydroelectric power generation company SJVN Ltd worth Rs 791 crore.
SJVN is investing an amount of Rs 1000 crore by implementing three solar power projects in UP.
Apart from 2 projects in Jalaun, their third solar power project is in Kanpur.
AMP Energy is investing in projects worth Rs 450 crore and Rs 300 crore in districts Ballia and Mau, respectively.
Several other projects in the same category are coming up in Azamgarh, Jhansi, Sitapur, Banda, Fatehpur, Auraiya, Noida and Sonbhadra.
In Jalaun, an investment worth Rs 170 crore is proposed by SAEL Limited, followed by Badaun where Hindustan Petroleum is making an investment of Rs 125 crore.
The UP government is setting up an infrastructure to transmit electricity from renewable energy projects as it seeks to boost the output from green sources and meet the state's energy requirement from them.
The two plants are proposed to be set up by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited and Indo Enviro Integrated Solutions Limited. The NTPC plant will convert 600 tonnes of mixed waste into green coal, while the second one will prepare 50 tonnes of organic manure, along with compressed biogas from 200 tonnes of wet waste. Both the plants are likely to be commissioned this year.
At present, Noida generates about 1,000 tonnes of municipal solid waste. The same is collected and disposed of by bio-remediation method at the temporary dump site in Sector 145. Presently, about five lakh tonnes of waste is accumulated at this site, for whose disposal the Authority is in the process of inviting tenders.For a permanent solution to municipal solid waste disposal, officials said, the Authority had invited expression of interest (EOI) for the establishment of CBG and related plants.
Four companies applied, and of them, NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited and Indo Enviro Integrated Solutions Limited gave presentations to a committee set up by the Noida Authority in June this year.NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited had, in fact, submitted a joint proposal to manufacture torrefied charcoal from 500 tonnes of mix waste and set up a CBG plant for processing 400 tonnes of wet waste. The Noida Authority committee subsequently directed the state-owned company to submit a revised proposal for torrefied charcoal plant from mix waste only.Indo Enviro Integrated Solutions Limited, on the other hand, has proposed to set up a wet waste processing plant for manufacturing CBG.Officials said besides scientific disposal of municipal waste, the Authority will save on the account of transporting waste to the temporary dumpsite.
#221
In a major achievement, the state has bagged a big-ticket investment with the stage set for commissioning of works for the world's largest Integrated Renewable Energy Storage Project (IRESP) in Kurnool district. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will be laying the foundation stone for the 5,230 MW renewable energy storage project to be set up by Greenko on Tuesday.
This project is considered to be the first-of-its-kind off stream, closed loop, giga watt scale long-duration energy storage project. The project has been designed as a flexible and round-the-clock clean energy producer.
The project will decarbonise 50GWh of electricity daily, offsetting 15 million tonnes of CO2 emissions per annum, which is equivalent to replacing five million cars with electric vehicles or 2.5 million hectares of afforestation.
According to information, it will enable the lowest cost green hydrogen and green molecule production and reduce the import bill of USD 25 billion for LNG. Greenko has signed firm cloud energy storage contracts with NIIF backed Ayana Renewables, Arcelor Mittal, Adani Group and also signed an MoU with NTPC for storage services to deliver peak and 24x7 renewable energy to the Indian market.
The project is part of the largest "Energy Cloud Storage Platform" of 50 GWh daily storage capacity by 2025 and 100 GWh by 2027. It entails an investment of over USD 3 billion and has raised USD 750 million of green bonds to finance its debt, a first for an under-construction storage project globally
#222
BMC's LT Market at Grant Road will get a bio-methanation plant with a capacity of 1.5 tonnes per day (TPD), which will generate electricity from municipal organic wet waste.
The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (MMRCL) has taken this initiative to set up the plant under its Corporate Environment Responsibility (CER) programme.
MMRCL has undertaken this initiative in cooperation with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to comply with the environmental clearance granted for the redevelopment project of the building at Kalbadevi-Girgaon (K3 building).
The biogas produced under this waste-to-energy project will be utilized for electricity generation to light up the LT market at Grant Road.
MMRCL's Director of Planning, R. Ramanna, stated, "This project will facilitate the production of clean energy and provide environmentally sound management of municipal organic wet waste. It will also help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, transportation costs of waste, and provide a cost-effective solution for environmental protection."
MMRC has awarded the installation, operation, and maintenance work to M/s Aerocare Aviation Services Pvt. Ltd.
The total cost of installation, operation, and maintenance is Rs. 74.61 lakh, and the plant is expected to generate 80-100 kWh per hour.
In June 2023, BMC signed a memorandum of understanding with Mahanagar Gas Limited to set up a compressed biogas plant (CBG) in the city. The CBG plant will have the capacity to process up to 1,000 tonnes of wet waste every day.
BMC will collect the wet waste generated from hotels, restaurants, banquet halls, and major vegetable markets across the city through dedicated vehicles, segregate it, and deliver it to the plant, where it will be processed to produce compressed biogas.
#223
While presenting his maiden budget, minister Kailash Gahlot announced the allocation of Rs 3,348 crore for the power sector, up from Rs 3,340 crore last year. (Representative image)
NEW DELHI: Delhi government's solar policy, which will be notified next month, aims at meeting 25% of the city's annual power demand through clean energy by 2025, finance minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday in the assembly.
While presenting his maiden budget, Gahlot announced the allocation of Rs 3,348 crore for the power sector, up from Rs 3,340 crore last year.
In December 2022, the Delhi government notified the Draft Solar Policy of Delhi that aims to establish Delhi as a leading example in the field of solar energy, he said. The policy aims to meet 25% of Delhi's annual electricity demand through solar energy by 2025. Solar energy currently fulfils 9% of the demand.
"To achieve this, the policy has set the target of installing solar infrastructure with a capacity of 6,000 MW by 2025, which will include 750 MW of Roof Top Solar (RTS). The Delhi government will notify the new policy by April 2023," Gahlot said.
The minister said the Delhi government had treated providing minimum electricity cost to every household like a fundamental right. Out of Delhi's 58.5 lakh domestic consumers, about 84% had got the Delhi government's electricity subsidy scheme, he said.
Gahlot said the Delhi government had become an example for the world by setting up EV (electric vehicle) charging stations with the lowest charging tariffs. Thirty charging stations will be launched in March 2023 and rest in the 2023-24 financial year. Nearly 900 EV charging and 103 battery-swapping points will be made, the budget said.
#224
Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced the Centre's approval to an over Rs 3,000-crore externally aided project (EAP) for building the eighth bridge over the Brahmaputra river near Guwahati and also performed the 'bhoomi pujan' for another EAP worth Rs 2,200 crore for a 120-MW hydel project in Assam's Dima Hasao district.
Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced the Centre's approval to an over Rs 3,000-crore externally aided project (EAP) for building the eighth bridge over the Brahmaputra river near Guwahati and also performed the 'bhoomi pujan' for another EAP worth Rs 2,200 crore for a 120-MW hydel project in Assam's Dima Hasao district. In a day-long visit to the state, Sitharaman also laid the foundation of improvement and upgrading work of a 90-km road from Haflong Tinali to Lower Haflong at an estimated cost of Rs 900 crore to be implemented under ADB-aided Assam Road Network Improvement Project (ARNIP).
In her last engagement, she launched the Assam's Right to Public Services portal. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the portal is a way forward for electronic delivery of ARTPS notified public services to people. "Our government is committed to bringing about fast, effective and resilient reforms in governance in tandem with the rapidly transforming world," he added.
The new bridge over the Brahmaputra aided by New Development Bank (NDB) would be 3-km-long and and four-lane. "The bridge will decongest the city of Guwahati and increase transport efficiency, thus cutting down travel time for daily commuters from the adjoining districts of Nalbari and Barpeta travelling to Guwahati. The project will help in reducing the river bank erosion in Sualkuchi and Palasbari and bring about improving transportation efficiency towards economic development of Assam," she tweeted.
Sitharaman arrived in Guwahati in the morning from where she flew to Dima Hasao accompanied by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for the 'bhoomi pujan' of Assam Power Generation Corporation Limited's 120-MW Lower Kopili Hydro Electric Project at Longku in Dima Hasao district, which is aided by Asian Development Bank and is scheduled to be completed by June 2024.
Sitharaman, in her address at Longku in the district, said, "The Centre will bear 77% (Rs 1,700 crore) of the cost of the project and rest 23% (Rs 500 crore) will be borne by the Assam government."
This run-of-the-river project over Kopili river will help increase electricity supplied from clean energy by 469 gigawatt hour (GWh) by 2025 and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 360,000 tons of carbon dioxide annually.
Later in the afternoon, Sitharaman and Sarma made a joint inspection of the progress of the under construction six-lane extra dosed bridge over the Brahmaputra connecting Guwahati and North Guwahati near Sonaram High School field in the city.
This 8.4-km-long bridge, which will be the seventh over the Brahmaputra in the state and third in the city funded by New Development Bank, will be the first-of-its-kind in the northeast and is being executed by State PWD (Roads) with a project cost of Rs 2608 crore. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation of this bridge in February, 2019. It is expected to be complete by August, 2023.
#225
Gujarat is blazing a trail in the renewable energy sector as it ramps up its installed capacity, solidifying its position as a leader in India's clean energy transition. Recently, Gujarat outshone Tamil Nadu with the highest wind energy installations in the country. Data from the Union ministry of new and renewable energy reveals that Gujarat boasts an impressive installed capacity of 10.41 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy, surpassing Chennai's 10.12GW capacity.
In fact, this accounts for a remarkable 51.3% of the state's total renewable energy capacity, including biopower and solar power.
With this, wind energy has taken the lead over solar energy installations in Gujarat. The state boasts an additional 9.68GW of solar installations, along with 0.11GW of biopower generation capacity and 91.64MW of small hydro power.
"The Centre has set a target of 500GW of installed renewable energy capacity by 2030. Gujarat has consistently been at the forefront of this sector, with aggressive installations in wind and solar energy generation. Enhanced incentives for adoption in residential and industrial sectors are among the key factors driving this rapid growth. To achieve the 500GW target, a diverse mix of solar, wind, and other renewable energies is essential," explains Jaideep Malaviya, a renewable energy consultant.
While Gujarat has long been a pioneer in solar installations, it currently ranks second to Rajasthan in terms of cumulative solar installations in India. However, Gujarat shows no signs of slowing down, as the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) recently announced plans to add 10GW of fresh renewable energy capacity in 2023-24.
A senior GUVNL official shares, "Our goal is to reduce dependence on fossil fuel-based energy, and we have ambitious plans for renewable energy installations. We aim to add 10GW of renewable energy capacity in the current fiscal year, to be installed within the next two years. In the first quarter of 2023-24, we have already initiated the process for 5GW of renewable energy. We have already signed power purchase agreements (PPAs) for 860MW, and other tender processes are underway. Gujarat has maintained its position as a leading state in renewable energy, and we believe that the new 10GW capacity will further strengthen our position."

With significant increases in solar and wind energy generation capacity, Gujarat's renewable power generation capacity reached 7,739.67 million units (MU) in April-May 2023, representing a notable 23% increase compared to the same period last year when it stood at 6,288.61MU.
Notably, Gujarat is also pioneering the field of green hydrogen. The state cabinet recently approved a draft land allocation policy for green hydrogen projects. Over 1.99 lakh hectares of land have been designated for five key private sector players seeking to venture into green hydrogen manufacturing.
#226
NATPAC on Wednesday organised a panel discussion on clean and green energy towards sustainable transportation. The discussion mainly centred on the need to reduce emissions and embracing sustainable modes of public transport.
Noted educationist and energy conservation expert RVG Menon who was part of the discussion said automobile driven development is not sustainable.
He observed that the level of conversion to electric vehicles is not as visible in public sector as in private sector.
While, Kuncheria P Isaac, founder vice-chancellor APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, who was also part of the event, spoke about the techniques to develop new road construction materials with lesser emissions. He also raised concerns over the use of footpaths and bicycles citing safety issues posed by the present road infrastructur.
Sreedevi R, executive engineer, KSEB opined that emission reduction is possible by a slew of measures such as promoting fiscal incentives, good investment in infrastructure and low carbon vehicle operation and rapid electrification of road transport.
The newly installed solar power plant was also inaugurated on the occasion by minister for electricity K Krishnankutty.
#227
The state-owned IPICOL and central PSU GAIL (India) on Wednesday signed an agreement for cooperation in the areas of green hydrogen, green ammonia and renewable energy (solar/wind) for production of eco-friendly fuels in Odisha.
According to the memorandum-of-understanding, a feasibility study will be conducted to explore the scope for establishing the proposed plants.
The agreement also emphasises promoting the production of eco-friendly fuels in Odisha.
"Green hydrogen would help the industries cut aggregate emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs). Odisha, being a power surplus state, is looking to further strengthen its position in power, and these upcoming plants would help the state-based heavy industries to supplement their growing power requirements," said Asit Tripathy, principal advisor to the chief minister, who was present on the occasion.
"The world is trying to reduce carbon emission, but it needs a lot of intent, support and energy to execute the change. We are eager to help the company in terms of suitable land and solid support," Tripathy added.
State industries secretary Hemant Sharma appreciated GAIL for taking interest to set up the green hydrogen plant in the state and said Odisha has a very large pre-existing market for hydrogen.
Director (business development) GAIL M V Iyer said the central PSU has been focussing on development of natural gas infrastructure and clean energy projects in Odisha and the rest of the country.
#228
ReNew aims to boost its renewable energy capacity to 50GW by 2030, focusing on wind, solar, and hybrid projects in Gujarat. The company plans to produce 1 million tonnes of green hydrogen annually and build solar manufacturing facilities. This initiative is expected to generate around 105,000 jobs, leveraging Gujarat's growing renewable energy infrastructure.
As part of RE Invest 2024, ReNew committed to increasing its renewable energy (RE) capacity to 50GW by 2030, according to Suman Sinha, CEO of the company. ReNew currently operates 1,550MW of wind, solar and hybrid energy projects in seven districts of Gujarat. These cater to both state and central govt contracts as well as to industrial units in the state.
"As part of our planned investments, ReNew has committed to producing 1 million tonnes of green hydrogen annually by leveraging 25GW of renewable energy. This move is expected to generate an additional 100,000 direct and indirect jobs," said Sinha.
The company will also establish solar manufacturing facilities to support 6GW ingot/wafer capacity, 6GW solar cell production and 10GW of solar modules, creating approximately 5,000 jobs, Sinha further said.
Gujarat is set to play a crucial role in this initiative, given the state's growing renewable energy infrastructure and favourable industrial climate.
#229
The world will set a new record for renewable power capacity this year led by solar energy in China and Europe, but growth could lose steam in 2023, the International Energy Agency said Wednesday.
A record 295 gigawatts of new renewable power capacity was added in 2021 despite supply chain bottlenecks, construction delays and high prices of raw materials, the IEA said in a report.

An additional 320 gigawatts is expected to be installed this year, equivalent to the entire electricity demand of Germany or the European Union's total electricity generation from natural gas.
Solar energy will account for 60 percent of renewable power growth in 2022, ahead of wind and hydropower, according to the agency, which advises developed nations on energy policy.
"The additional renewables capacity commissioned for 2022 and 2023 has the potential to significantly reduce the European Union's dependence on Russian gas in the power sector," the IEA said.
"However, the actual contribution will depend on the success of parallel energy efficiency measures to keep the region's energy demand in check."
The EU set a goal of slashing its heavy reliance on Russian natural gas by two thirds this year following Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
"Energy market developments in recent months -- especially in Europe -- have proven once again the essential role of renewables in improving energy security, in addition to their well-established effectiveness at reducing emissions," IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol said in a statement.
He urged governments to cut red tape, accelerate the deliveries of permits and provide the right incentives for a faster deployment of renewables.
The IEA warned that, based on current policies, "renewable power's global growth is set to lose momentum next year."
"In the absence of stronger policies, the amount of renewable power capacity added worldwide is expected to plateau in 2023," the IEA said.
The Paris-based IEA said progress in solar energy is offset by a 40 percent drop in hydropower expansion and "little change" in wind additions.
#230
At Sharm el-Sheikh Climate Change Conference (COP 27), India reaffirmed its renewable targets but has also retained a focus on coal to ensure energy access. Energy access to all citizens is key to energy justice. This can be achieved by the active participation of grassroots civil society actors, argues an IIT-Kanpur study published in the peer-reviewed journal Energy Research & Social Science. The research is based on the study of media articles on energy published in major English dailies between 2015 and 2020.Energy justice (EJ) refers to energy systems' ethical and social dimensions. It prescribes certain principles like making energy available and affordable to all while ensuring due processes that are inclusive and maintaining the environmental sustainability of the energy systems.Due to strong ties with politics and the public, media largely shapes the popular narrative and public discourse, as a result of which it can influence the policy decisions of the government. Thus, the discussion on various principles of EJ and implicit consensus and conflict as reflected in the media narratives assumes tremendous significance. "The media narrative largely shapes the ways other social actors construct issues in their diverse discourses depending on their own discursive strategies in the construction of reality.
Therefore, the actors in media and their discursive strategies form the focal point of our analysis," explained Prof. Pradip Swarnakar, co-author and head of Just Transition Research Centre, IIT-Kanpur. He further adds, "If India aims to phase out coal mining by 2050, 15-20 million livelihoods are likely to be affected in the process of this transition. Thus, integrating EJ in the national energy policy assumes utmost significance."The research paper titled, Energy justice in post-Paris India: Unpacking consensus and conflict through storylines and discourse coalitions authored by Rajshri Shukla and Pradip Swarnakar of IIT-Kanpur, presents a stark contrast in India's current energy sector vis-a-vis the projected goal. Coal remains the country's backbone, the world's third-largest energy consumer, and is set to become the largest in 2040. However, India's per capita consumption is half the world average. This reflects that energy injustice prevails in unequal access to power by a large populace.Although coal remains central, India committed ambitious target of installing 175 GW of total renewable energy capacity by 2022 and deriving 40% of its energy from non-fossil fuels by 2030 in its Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) submitted in the run-up to the Paris Agreement in 2015. The study says that the push for renewables has continued throughout the post-Paris period, with measures such as the target of 175 GW being updated to 500 GW by 2030, accompanied by a push towards promoting green hydrogen as a renewable source. This dual trajectory has resulted in conflicting narratives that the study tries to capture, reframing the conflict as that of energy justice principles.Employing the discourse theory, the study examines 141 articles from nine major media publications, including TOI and ET. The study predominantly focuses on the justice principles of availability, sustainability, affordability, intra-generational justice, and due process. The study traces these principles and the interconnections among them in the form of consensus and conflict among the actors present in the discourse.Analysis of the media discourses finds multiple themes related to energy justice principles supported by different sets of actors. For example, there are actor groups, respectively supporting, a) Availability + Intragenerational justice, and b) only Availability. The actor group supporting only the availability principle is dominated by the governmental actors and hails the government schemes like Suabhagya and Ujjwala for successfully expanding energy access. The actor group supporting the availability plus intragenerational justice theme is dominated by civil society actors and presents more nuanced scrutiny of these schemes. They point to the failure of the schemes to effectively deal with the inequalities in energy access that stem from gender, class, and rural-urban-based discrimination. Such conflicts highlight the risk of missing out on underlying social factors that result in a lack of affordability, appreciation of inter-generational justice, and due process in the policies targeted to improve energy availability.Similarly, the case of energy sources presents an intense conflict between the availability and sustainability in the discussion around fossil fuels like coal and oil, non-fossil fuel like nuclear and large hydro, and renewables like solar and wind. The actor group supporting fossils and non-fossils is predominantly composed of state actors and argues that these fuels are indispensable for the energy security of the country and for expanding their availability. The actor group supporting renewables upholds the principle of sustainability and is dominated by the presence of civil society organizations.Based on such findings, the study argues that robust public participation coming from civil society organizations from all levels of society is of utmost importance if we are to make energy policies that imbibe all elements of justice and are not narrowly focused on one principle. For ensuring this, the due process component, i.e., formulating policy-making processes that have in-built mechanisms for ensuring public participation and dissemination of accountable information, needs to be strengthened.
#231

Union Budget 2023-24 is expected to reflect India's climate commitments of COP26 and COP27 with decarbonization, energy transitioning, and renewable energy (RE) as the central themes. Key developments over the past years reflect the commitments -- Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme, electric mobility, green financing, advanced chemistry cell (ACC) manufacturing for electric vehicles, among others.
However, unlike the previous Budget's targeted focus on RE manufacturing and ancillary market development, this Budget should focus on capacity addition and integration. The much-awaited enactment of the Energy Conversation (Amendment) Bill, 2022 and RE grid integration, hints at this approach of leap frogging in the direction.
There is patient anticipation among energy sector players. Keeping the goal of 500 GW and 50% non-fossil fuel energy share by 2030 in perspective, the Union Budget should target fast-track technology adoption. Moreover, India will need US$223 billion investment by 2030 to achieve this target. Therefore, the focus should be on long-term policy stability to promote investments in RE and newer emerging themes of green hydrogen, storage, electrolyzer manufacturing, etc.
Green hydrogen and its lineages are expected to play a critical role in the decarbonization strategy globally. But around 95% of the current usage is derived from fossil fuels and with demand for hydrogen expected to increase beyond 200 MTPA by 2030, the bulk of it is expected to come from green hydrogen.
India's current hydrogen demand/usage stands at 6.7 MTPA (7.5% of the global demand), which is expected to increase to 12 MMT over the next decade. Currently serving as feedstock in ammonia production and in refineries, the use case is bound to increase with its substitution in natural gas/oil/coal across sectors like steel, chemicals, long-haul transport, shipping and aviation etc.
#232
Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu has pledged Andhra Pradesh's commitment to generating 72.60 GW of renewable energy by 2030, in alignment with India's goal of 500 GW. He also announced plans for a global university dedicated to clean energy and circular economy, encouraging global investors to leverage the state's investor-friendly policies and skilled workforce.
Chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu has pledged Andhra Pradesh's commitment to generating 72.60 GW of renewable energy by 2030, aligning with India's goal of 500 GW by the same year.
He mentioned that the initiative would create jobs, protect the environment, and make AP a leader in green energy. He also announced plans to establish a global university for clean energy and circular economy to encourage knowledge sharing and innovation.
Promoting AP as the "next big player in green energy" at the global renewable energy investment meet in Gandhinagar (Gujarat), Naidu spoke about the immense potential of clean energy for India's future.

He highlighted the state's coastline, strong industrial base, excellent transport links, and vast potential in solar, wind, pumped storage, and green hydrogen. He invited global investors to take advantage of the state's investor-friendly policies, which include tax breaks, subsidies, and easy regulations, along with a skilled workforce. "I want to create one of the best ecosystems for green energy in India," he said.
Naidu also stressed the importance of adopting global best practices in renewable energy, focusing on R&D, policy support, and removing obstacles for emerging technologies.

He said the state has set renewable energy capacity targets with 40 GW solar energy, 20 GW wind energy, 12 GW pumped storage, 25 GW battery energy storage, 1 MTPA green hydrogen and derivatives, 2500 KLPD bio-fuels and 500 public charging stations for electric vehicles.
He finformed that AP has installed 4335.28 MW solar, 4083.57 MW wind power, 106MW small hydro, 443 MW bio energy and 36 MW waste to energy so far.
Around 4,000 MW solar power parks have been established in Ananthapuram, Kurnool and Kadapa districts. Another 2700 MW solar capacity is coming up in Prakasam and Sri Satya Sai districts, he said.
#233
India may not be in a position to stop the use of new coal-based power generation for the next couple of decades like many other nations who have signed "no new coal power compact", but the country's strong renewable push may show results at sub-national levels. This as it encourages states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Bihar, besides the Union territory of Ladakh to work towards a carbon-neutral future in due course.
India may not be in a position to stop the use of new coal-based power generation for the next couple of decades like many other nations who have signed "no new coal power compact", but the country's strong renewable push may show results at sub-national levels. This as it encourages states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Bihar, besides the Union territory of Ladakh to work towards a carbon-neutral future in due course.
A discussion organised by the Climate Group on the sidelines of the annual New York Climate Week showcased progressive climate actions being undertaken by these states and the UT of Ladakh as they strategically shift towards increased use of renewable energy.
As discussed, Gujarat is on path to significantly reduce emissions as it has decided to rely on renewable energy (RE) alone to meet all future power needs. New analysis from the Gujarat Energy Research and Management Institute (GERMI) and Climate Trends shows that the share of coal power generation in the state will come down to 16 per cent by 2030, from the current 63 per cent as it aligns with the 450GW revised national renewable energy target.
The state is also setting up the world's largest grid-scale battery storage in the Kutch region and is one of India's largest markets for electric two-wheelers.
Similarly, Bihar has started working on developing a low carbon pathway by 2040 while Ladakh is working towards 10 GW of RE capacity with solar and wind power, and it is setting up a 50MWh battery storage capacity - the country's largest so far.
Amid a global momentum to end new coal-fired power generation, a number of countries, including France, Germany, Denmark, Chile, Sri Lanka and the UK on Friday launched "no new coal power compact" on the sidelines of the
United Nations General Assembly in New York.
Signatories of the compact will have to immediately cease permitting and end new construction of unabated coal-fired power generation projects by the end of the year. The initiative is aimed at encouraging all other countries to commit to halt construction of new coal-fired power plants by the upcoming 26th session of the UN Climate Conference (COP26) to keep the 1.5-degree-Celsius goal under Paris Agreement within reach and avoid the catastrophic impacts of climate change.
The announcement on the compact was made at the UN High Level Dialogue on Energy Summit, which is secretary-general Antonio Guterres-led forum. It recognises the critical role of energy in advancing climate goals, as well as development priorities including Covid-19 recovery processes.
#234
Waaree Renewable Technologies Ltd (WRTL) on Tuesday said it has secured its largest-ever order of 2 GW solar project from Sunbreeze Renewables Nine Pvt Ltd, a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) of Jindal Renewables. The project will be implemented in Bikaner, Rajasthan, utilizing advanced technologies and sustainable solutions to enhance energy efficiency and maximize generation, a company statement said.
WRTL, a subsidiary of Waaree Energies Ltd, India's largest solar PV module manufacturer, has secured its largest-ever Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) contract for a 2 GW solar project from Sunbreeze Renewables Nine Pvt. Ltd, a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) of Jindal Renewables, according to the statement.
WRTL will oversee the design, engineering, procurement, supply, construction, testing, and commissioning of the solar PV project, ensuring efficient delivery of clean energy to the designated Point of Injection (POI).
Bharat Saxena, President of Jindal Renewables said, "Partnering with Waaree for lower emission steel production is just the beginning- there will be many more such initiatives as we continue to lead the way in adopting renewable energy solutions."Viren C Doshi, Director of WRTL said, "We are delighted to collaborate with Jindal Renewables on this landmark 2 GW solar EPC project."
Jindal Renewables aims to become a pioneer in renewable energy projects in India, currently developing close to 3GW of diverse renewable assets with power off-take completely locked in.
It aims to develop around 12 GW of renewable energy assets, storage facilities, as well as significant green hydrogen production facilities by 2030 and become amongst the largest de-carbonization solution providers in the country.
WRTL is a subsidiary company of Waaree Group and spearheading the Solar EPC business. Waaree Group has successfully installed 10000+ solar projects with cumulative installation done for over 1.82 GW.
#235
India's leading companies lagging on renewable energy goals, Climate Risk Horizon reports
India's top companies, particularly in heavy industries like steel, cement, and textiles, are lagging behind in meeting renewable energy and decarbonisation goals, according to Climate Risk Horizons. Despite ambitious commitments, only about 5% of their electricity consumption comes from renewables. Strengthened regulatory efforts are deemed essential to close this gap and promote energy security.
India's leading companies are falling short in meeting the nation's ambitious renewable energy and decarbonisation targets, according to a new analysis by the think tank Climate Risk Horizons (CRH). The industrial sector, which accounts for over half of India's energy consumption, plays a critical role in the government's decarbonisation efforts.
In a report titled "Slow to Switch," CRH evaluated 33 companies across seven industries.
Five of these industries are major energy consumers-Cement, Steel, Aluminium, Textiles, and Fertilisers-while the other two are Information Technology and Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG). Using publicly available data from annual and sustainability reports, the analysis assessed these companies' decarbonisation progress as of FY 2023.
The findings reveal a significant gap between the companies' renewable energy commitments and their actual actions. Only about 5% of the annual electricity consumption of the assessed companies comes from renewable sources such as solar and wind. Except for ArcelorMittal/Nippon Steel, all companies reported their energy consumption from various sources. Despite ambitious commitments as members of global renewable energy alliances, nearly all are off track to meet their goals. Notable examples include:
* Steel Industry: Companies like JSW, Jindal, Tata Steel, and ArcelorMittal/Nippon Steel are sourcing less than 0.05% of their energy from renewables on average.
* Textile Industry: Firms such as Trident, Welspun, Arvind, and Shahi have aligned their targets with the Paris Agreement, but less than 3% of their energy consumption is from renewable sources.
* Cement Industry: Major players like Ultratech, ACC, and Ambuja aim to reduce emissions per the Paris Agreement, yet renewables only account for 2.5% of their energy use.
* FMCG Sector: Companies like Godrej, ITC, and Britannia have low renewable energy utilisation, contrasting with better performers like Nestle and Hindustan Unilever.
The information technology sector emerged as the top performer overall, while the fertiliser industry received the lowest scores.
"Shifting to renewable energy is essential for energy security at both the company and national levels. While a few large companies have started to move in this direction, much more needs to be done quickly if India is to meet its decarbonisation targets," said Vishnu Teja, lead author of the report.
India's regulations mandate that large electricity consumers must source 30% of their electricity from renewable sources, yet the companies analysed only average 5% renewable electricity consumption. The report underscores the heavy industry sector's potential to drive decarbonisation in India's electricity system. These companies' annual electricity consumption exceeds 169 billion units, more than double that of states like Andhra Pradesh or West Bengal, yet less than 5% is sourced from renewables.
Strengthening and enforcing renewable purchase obligations is crucial for developing renewable energy capacity and energy storage technologies, which will lower costs and enhance energy security for industries and the economy.
"India Inc needs to step up and invest in an energy-secure future. The country's renewable energy and decarbonisation targets cannot be met without active support from large corporate players. With green energy open access regulations now in place, companies should be signing Power Purchase Agreements to ensure 100% of their electricity comes from renewable sources by 2030," said Ashish Fernandes, CEO of Climate Risk Horizons and co-author of the report.
#236
Chief minister Mohan Yadav on Monday said that the renewable energy capacity of MP has increased by more than 14 times in the last 12 years. He made the comment during his presentation on clean and green energy in Madhya Pradesh, at the fourth Global Renewable Energy Investors Meet and Expo in Gujarat's Gandhinagar. The event was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi.
Yadav said that the MP has the power to make the impossible possible.
"We are determined to work with commitment to realise the dreams of PM Modi," he said.
While addressing the session, Yadav said that in 2012, the renewable energy capacity in MP was less than 500 MW. However, due to the formation of a separate department in the state and because of policy changes and various incentives offered by the govt, the renewable energy capacity of the state increased by more than 14 times in the last 12 years. Today, renewable energy contributes 21 percent to the state's total energy capacity.
Yadav said that MP is also a leading state in innovation in the renewable energy sector. He added, "Large solar energy parks were established under the Rewa Solar Project. From here, solar energy, which is cheaper than coal-produced energy, has been made available in the country for the first time. The Rewa solar plant provided electricity to Delhi Metro and has been recognised globally as a model project. The project is also taught as a case study at Harvard University. The country's lowest tariff at Neemuch solar park of Agar-Shajapur-Neemuch Solar Project is Rs 2.14 per unit."
Yadav pointed out that a 1500MW capacity solar park is under construction in Agar-Shajapur-Neemuch. The world's largest floating solar project of 600 MW capacity is also being developed at Omkareshwar on the Narmada river. Panels for a 200 MW project have been installed in it. This project will also reduce water loss due to evaporation.
In his presentation, he noted that the work to accomplish the target to install solar rooftops on all govt buildings by 2025 is in mission mode. Nearly 15,000-hectare land has been identified in Agar, Dhar, Ashoknagar, Bhind, Shivpuri, and Sagar districts, where 7,500 MW solar energy capacity will be installed. The target is to install 3,000 MW of wind energy in Ujjain, Agar, Dhar, Mandsaur, and Ratlam, he said.
The state govt is considering making necessary changes in the existing pumped hydro action plan of the state for the smooth development of pumped hydro energy storage projects so that investors can easily invest in the state.
Yadav said that to encourage renewable energy, a 227.54-acre state-of-the-art manufacturing zone is underway in Narmadapuram at the cost of Rs 464.65 crore. The govt is providing attractive incentives on land, electricity, and water rates in this zone. Under this, land will be allotted at a token amount of Re one, and the annual rate of lease rent will be Re one per square metre. There will be a discount of Rs 4.36 paise per unit in electricity rate for the first five years, along with many other concessions that will also be given by the state govt.
#237
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the fourth Global Renewable Energy Investor's Meet (RE-INVEST 2024) in Gandhinagar, Gujarat on Monday and said that the world knows that India is the best bet in the 21st century.
"The world knows that India is the best bet in the 21st Century," PM Modi said at the expo, held at Mahatma Mandir, showcased contributions from public and private sectors, state governments, and start-ups. "During his earlier visit, the then US president Barack Obama asked whether we face the pressure to achieve targets. I had responded that 'This is Modi. And the only pressure I feel is of the future generation that is not even born yet.' I am working for the next generation."
Praising the efforts of Gujarat govt, PM Modi said, "Gujarat is that state that started the first solar power policy in India. We created among the earliest climate change department. Gujarat was already installing solar power plants where there were just talks about the solar power elsewhere."
"Mahatma Gandhi was leading minimum carbon footprint life. He had said that the resources are adequate to meet our need, but not our greed. His vision has stemmed from India's great history. Net zero is not a fancy word for us, it is India's need and commitment. It is commitment of every state," he added.
Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel and Union minister for New and Renewable Energy Pralhad Joshi were also present with PM Modi at the event.
The main goal of the exhibition was to create networking opportunities through a B2B digital platform for business-to-business (B2B), business-to-government (B2G), and government-to-government (G2G) interactions. This year's industry partner is the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).
The main theme of the event is Mission 500 GW, emphasizing India's goal to expand its renewable energy capacity by 2030. Currently, India is the 4th largest country in installed renewable energy capacity.
International partners include Australia, Denmark, Germany, and Norway. Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh are also among the participate.
The conference will feature 44 sessions, including a chief ministerial plenary, a CEO roundtable and discussions on renewable energy innovations. Special sessions will discuss the role of women in energy transitions and provide a platform for start-ups, including pitches by the ten winners of the Solar X Challenge.
The inaugural RE-INVEST event was held in February 2015 in New Delhi, followed by editions in October 2018 in Delhi NCR, and a virtual edition in November 2020.
PM Modi also interacted with beneficiaries of the 'PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijlee Yojna' scheme in Gandhinagar. The scheme, launched on February 29, aims to increase solar rooftop capacity and empower households to generate their own electricity. A subsidy covers 60% of the cost for systems up to 2kW capacity and 40% for systems between 2 to 3kW capacity. The PM spent 20 minutes at the residential complex.
Later, PM Modi will officially open the fourth Global Renewable Energy Investor's Meet and Expo (RE-INVEST 2024), featuring nearly 40 sessions, including a Chief Ministerial Plenary and a CEO Roundtable.
PM Modi chairs meeting at Shree Somnath Trust
In another event, PM Modi chaired a meeting of the Shree Somnath Trust in Gandhinagar. The trust manages the famous Somnath Temple. According to a PIB release, the meeting took stock of developmental works by the Trust. On social media, PM Modi said, "We took stock of ways to enhance the experience for pilgrims and further improve the various facilities." 
#238
The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has given approvals to three power utility firms in Mumbai for procurement of 959 MW of renewable energy for city consumers.
In the first order, it allowed BEST to procure 234 MW solar power from Solar Energy Corporation of India Limited (SECI). BEST general manager Lokesh Chandra said renewable energy will be used to charge electric buses whose fleet is being expanded to 10,000 in 4-5 years.
In the second order, MERC allowed Adani Electricity long-term procurement of 500 MW from grid-connected renewable energy power projects.
This will be complemented with power from any other source on round the clock (RTC) basis, under tariff-based competitive bidding process, the order stated.
In the third order, MERC gave approval to Tata Power for long-term procurement (25 years) of 225 MW capacity from grid connected wind-solar hybrid power projects through a competitive bidding process for meeting its renewable purchase obligations.
An official from Adani Electricity, welcoming the order, said the power utility firm is already procuring 700 MW from hybrid solar and wind power plants for Mumbai distribution. "In addition to this, MERC had recently approved procurement of 1000 MW renewable energy round the clock. The present order gives us further 500 MW of renewable energy," he said.

In the case of Tata Power, a senior official said that Tata Power Green Energy's 225 MW hybrid power project in Rajasthan has already begun supplying green power to Mumbai. With this, the utility firm's non-carbon power supply to Mumbai consumers will rise to 38% this financial year and it will meet its renewable purchase obligations, said an official. The power firm has over seven lakh consumers in the city.
This is the first hybrid project which was developed by Tata Power consisting of a recently commissioned solar power plant at Noorsar in Rajasthan and existing wind assets of 96MW which is expected to generate about 700 MUs of energy per year. "The plant will annually offset approximately 700 million Kg of CO2," he said.
#239
Researchers at IIT Guwahati have developed a cost-efficient, high-performance photodetector using formamidinium perovskite and plasmonic nanoparticles. This innovation, published in *ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces*, enhances light absorption and sensitivity, making it ideal for applications in healthcare, environmental monitoring, and solar energy.
Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Guwahati have developed an advanced, cost-efficient photodetector with the potential to revolutionize industries like healthcare, environmental monitoring, and solar energy. This cutting-edge device is based on a unique combination of formamidinium perovskite and plasmonic nanoparticles, making it highly sensitive to light while remaining affordable and durable.Photodetectors, essential devices in modern technology, detect light and convert it into electrical signals. They are integral to various applications, including cameras, medical imaging equipment, environmental sensors, and communication systems. Despite their importance, achieving high-performance photodetectors at a low production cost has long been a challenge. The team at IIT Guwahati has made a significant breakthrough in addressing this challenge.The research, published in the respected *ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces* journal, was led by Prof. P. K. Giri of IIT Guwahati's Department of Physics, with contributions from his research scholars, Debabrata Sahu, Subhankar Debnath, and Sirsendu Ghosal.The team focused on using perovskite materials-known for their superior light absorption properties-which are commonly applied in solar cells and other light-sensitive technologies. In particular, the formamidinium-based perovskite chosen for this study offers high stability and efficient light-to-electricity conversion. However, balancing light absorption efficiency and affordability has been a persistent issue.
To enhance the performance of their photodetector, the IIT Guwahati researchers incorporated an array of 2D-printed plasmonic nanoparticles. These nanoparticles, composed of silver (Ag), are designed to concentrate light onto the perovskite layer via a phenomenon known as localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR). LSPR allows for the effective focusing of light, which significantly boosts light absorption and improves the photodetector's performance.Prof. P. K. Giri explained, "Our aim was to create a photodetector that combines efficiency, affordability, and durability, making it suitable for real-world applications. By integrating 2D-printed plasmonic nanoparticles, we have notably enhanced the device's performance and made the production process both scalable and cost-effective."The team achieved this improvement by employing a precise microprinting technique to arrange the silver nanoparticles. This technique enhances the device's sensitivity while keeping the manufacturing process economical. The resulting photodetector remains stable under typical environmental conditions, ensuring its suitability for practical use across multiple sectors.This innovative photodetector technology holds promise for multiple applications. In healthcare, it could improve the accuracy and quality of medical imaging, aiding in earlier and more accurate diagnoses. For environmental monitoring, the enhanced sensitivity could lead to more precise detection of pollutants and other harmful substances. Additionally, in the solar energy industry, the improved light absorption capabilities of this photodetector could contribute to more efficient energy conversion, supporting renewable energy goals.The IIT Guwahati team's breakthrough paves the way for broader adoption of advanced photodetectors in various industries by reducing costs while enhancing performance. Their work not only addresses significant technological challenges but also contributes to solutions for global issues related to health, environmental protection, and sustainable energy. This development is a promising step forward in making high-quality photodetection technology more accessible and impactful in real-world applications.
#240
The renewable energy space in India has grown multifold. India ranks 3rd in renewable energy country attractive index in 2021 and 3rd largest energy consuming country in the world, according to Invest India website.
In the last six years, India witnessed the fastest rate of growth in renewable capacity addition among all large economies in last 6 years.
The renewable energy sector was not this progressive at the time of independence. As the chart below shows, power generation from renewable sources was 0 in 1947.
Electricity generation from renewable sources was over 1.3 lakh GWh in 2020.
In addition, over 40% of India's installed electricity capacity in 2021 came from non-fossil energy sources.
The installed solar energy capacity has increased by 19.3 times in the last 8 years, and stood at 56.6 GW as of June 1, 2022.
India's renewable space assumes significance as the government has set targets to reduce India's total projected carbon emission by 1 billion tonnes by 2030.
The Centre also plans to reduce the carbon intensity of the nation by less than 45% by the end of the decade, achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2070 and expand India's renewable energy installed capacity to 500 GW by 2030.
#241

Adani Green Energy plans a massive investment of Rs 2 lakh crore by 2030 to increase renewable energy capacities to 45 GW. The expansion includes a major boost in Khavda, Gujarat, to 30 GW from 2GW, with additional investments for 6-7 GW beyond Khavda.
Adani Green Energy Ltd is set to make a substantial investment of approximately Rs 2 lakh crore by 2030 to enhance its renewable energy capacities. The company aims to increase its total renewable energy portfolio to about 45 GW by 2030 from the current 10.9 GW.
According to an ET report, the major expansion is planned at Khavda in Gujarat's Kutch district, where the capacity will be boosted to 30 GW from the existing 2GW.
A company official revealed that out of the total investment plan, around Rs 50,000 crore is allocated for capacities beyond Khavda, amounting to approximately 6-7 GW.
Adani Green's current total capacity includes 7,393 MW of solar, 1,401 MW of wind, and 2,140 MW of wind-solar hybrid.
At the Khavda project, which is the world's largest renewable energy park, the capacity is expected to reach 6 GW by the end of this fiscal year, says Adani Green's managing director Vneet Jaain. "There are power purchase agreements for power from Khavda for Adani Green and there is a huge captive requirement of renewable power by group companies which Khavda can provide," he was quoted as saying.
Adani Green, with a market capitalisation exceeding Rs 3 lakh crore, is making strides in the renewable energy sector. Adani New Industries Ltd, a subsidiary of Adani Enterprises Ltd, is gearing up to invest over Rs 30,000 crore by 2030 to expand its capacity in manufacturing solar and wind energy equipment. The company aims to achieve 5 GW of wind turbine manufacturing capacity by FY27 from the current 1.5 GW.
Additionally, Adani New Industries plans to add 10 GW capacity in solar modules manufacturing in the next three and a half years. Jaain emphasized that Adani Green's sourcing of solar panels and modules from Adani New Industries is managed separately and does not directly impact the generation unit.
#242
Adani Green Energy plans a massive investment of Rs 2 lakh crore by 2030 to increase renewable energy capacities to 45 GW. The expansion includes a major boost in Khavda, Gujarat, to 30 GW from 2GW, with additional investments for 6-7 GW beyond Khavda.
Adani Green Energy Ltd is set to make a substantial investment of approximately Rs 2 lakh crore by 2030 to enhance its renewable energy capacities. The company aims to increase its total renewable energy portfolio to about 45 GW by 2030 from the current 10.9 GW.
According to an ET report, the major expansion is planned at Khavda in Gujarat's Kutch district, where the capacity will be boosted to 30 GW from the existing 2GW.
A company official revealed that out of the total investment plan, around Rs 50,000 crore is allocated for capacities beyond Khavda, amounting to approximately 6-7 GW.
Adani Green's current total capacity includes 7,393 MW of solar, 1,401 MW of wind, and 2,140 MW of wind-solar hybrid.
At the Khavda project, which is the world's largest renewable energy park, the capacity is expected to reach 6 GW by the end of this fiscal year, says Adani Green's managing director Vneet Jaain. "There are power purchase agreements for power from Khavda for Adani Green and there is a huge captive requirement of renewable power by group companies which Khavda can provide," he was quoted as saying.
Adani Green, with a market capitalisation exceeding Rs 3 lakh crore, is making strides in the renewable energy sector. Adani New Industries Ltd, a subsidiary of Adani Enterprises Ltd, is gearing up to invest over Rs 30,000 crore by 2030 to expand its capacity in manufacturing solar and wind energy equipment. The company aims to achieve 5 GW of wind turbine manufacturing capacity by FY27 from the current 1.5 GW.
Additionally, Adani New Industries plans to add 10 GW capacity in solar modules manufacturing in the next three and a half years. Jaain emphasized that Adani Green's sourcing of solar panels and modules from Adani New Industries is managed separately and does not directly impact the generation unit.
#243
NHPC is planning to invest Rs 5,500 crore in the renewable energy sector in Bihar, which holds an important position in India's transition journey, the company's CMD Raj Kumar Chaudhary said on Thursday. However, a handholding of the state govt will be essential from planning to implementation of the future project, he said at the summit. Bihar has made progress in the energy sector, and NHPC is serious about making huge investments in the state, Chaudhary said. "In renewable energy, NHPC has written a letter to the state govt, showing intention for investment of more than Rs 5,500 crore. We will be signing an MoU also with the state govt for projects like solar power, floating solar and storage (projects)," he said. 
#244
The new guidelines by the ministry of power are set to lend fillip to the solar sectors as it makes open access system where generators can sell to any consumer more lucrative.
In its notification, under the Electricity (Promoting Renewable Energy Through Green Energy Open Access) Rules, 2022, the ministry has allowed banking of power, lowered the minimum contract quantity, caped on cross subsidy charges and removed additional surcharge.
The new rules are set to buoy the sector with the country solar power hub Rajasthan is expected to gain much from these changes.
As per the rules, the consumers now can have minimum capacity of 100 kilowatt from open access. Earlier, it varied from 250kw to 1000kw. This is expected to widen the consumer base increasing demand for more solar power.
Sunil Bansal, president of Rajasthan Solar Association said, "The measures will make open access power more lucrative to consumers. Today, because of high levies and additional charges, it is not an incentive for the industry or any other consumer to tap the cheaper power. Given the geographical and generational advantages Rajasthan enjoys, the state will benefit the most from these rules."
The rules also removed any limit on contract demand thereby making it convenient for consumers to sources their energy as per their requirement. More importantly, there will be no additional surcharge if consumer is paying fixed charges in his/her normal power bill.

Rajasthan government charges additional surcharges which have been a major deterrent for consumers to tap the open access market. If the additional surcharge goes, it will make economic senses to opt for power through open access system.
The notification also said that cross-subsidy charges cannot be increased more than 50% within 12-year of commissioning. Banking facility should be minimum for 30 days and settlement block must not be more than 12 in a day.
What will again make it attractive for the consumers is that they will be awarded by certificate and rating for using green energy and this will lower cost of power. In order to push the generation and consumption of green hydrogen and ammonia, there will be no cross-subsidy and additional surcharges.
State electricity regulatory commissions will make the rules based on the guidelines which will be implemented in the state.
#245
Amidst global clamour against the thermal power plants and the fight against climate change, Karnataka energy minister KJ George on Monday clarified that there is no proposal to build any new thermal plants in Karnataka.
Amidst global clamour against the thermal power plants and the fight against climate change, Karnataka energy minister KJ George on Monday clarified that there is no proposal to build any new thermal plants in Karnataka.
 "Rather than setting up new thermal power plants, we will strengthen the existing plants and focus more on augmenting the generation of renewable energy in Karnataka," the minister said during his visit to the Ballari Thermal Power Station (BTPS) at Kuditini in Ballari.
However, the minister directed the electrical engineers to maintain the quality of coal used at these thermal plants.
Allaying fears that the monsoon without rains could affect Karnataka's power generation, George said, "I acknowledge scanty rainfall across Karnataka. But this has not affected our power generation in any way as we have been able to meet the required demand currently. We are hoping that the monsoon will be bountiful in the coming days."
Asked if the state government is considering setting up additional thermal plants to meet the growing demand for power in Karnataka, the minister clarified that the government has no intention to increase the number of thermal plants.

"We are neither considering nor are we planning to set up new thermal plants in the state. We are content with the existing number of thermal plants, and they will be strengthened further. Also, there is no shortage of coal," the minister clarified.
Pointing towards the growing popularity of electric vehicles (EVs) among citizens, George said, "People are increasingly shifting towards EVs, and these battery-operated vehicles are the latest trend today. Keeping that in mind we have taken up work to increase charging stations. We are also focussing primarily on enhancing the generating capacity of renewable energy and there are infinite opportunities in the Solar sector. The government is considering generating more solar power in the coming days."
Prior to visiting Ballari, the Energy minister accompanied by Additional Chief Secretary (Energy) Gaurav Gupta, KPTCL Managing Director Pankaj Kumar Pandey visited the Raichur Thermal Power Plant (RTPS) and Yeramarus Thermal Power Plant (YTPS) at Raichur.
#246
Power minister Ramkrishna 'Sudin' Dhavalikar said that he expects Germany to bring in technical expertise and investment for renewable energy projects in the state, which is aiming for 100% renewable energy by 2045 in all sectors.
Goa is in the forefront to encourage solar energy and other non-conventional renewable energy to cut carbon emissions to zero, he said at the Indo-German core partnering meet on sustainable energy and environmental technologies held recently.
The Energy & Resources Institute (TERI), Goa, along with Physikalisch Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB), Germany, organised the conference to explore opportunities for implementation of sustainable energy and technology driven projects in Goa.
The core partnering meet was the outcome of the first joint Indo-German stakeholder meeting on 'Renewable and Sustainable Energy Technologies' which intended to establish a joint Indo-German Agri-Marine Energy Centre in Goa.
Goa is facing challenges in the power sector due to increasing development since the state does not generate power and depends on neighbouring states and this also creates hurdles for the development of industry in the state, Dhavalikar said.
"There are abundant mines in Goa with tremendous amounts of water, which can be used by deploying gravity-assisted hydropower generation technology. There is a pressing need to develop other new energy storage technologies," the power minister said.

The minister asked private sector companies from Goa to explore opportunities for implementation of sustainable energy and technology projects in Goa. "I hope that the Indo-German partnering meet will result in developing sustainable solutions," he further said.
Several state government departments highlighted the opportunities, challenges, issues and technological requirements for energy and environmental sustainability.
Goa Energy Development Agency (GEDA) member secretary Sanjeev Joglekar said that maximum carbon emissions in the state are from the transport sector, followed by electricity, industry, fisheries and agriculture. He said that since Goa is a tourism state with limited land and energy resources, there is a need for the higher efficiency and aesthetic coloured solar panels, a technology developed and implemented by the Fraunhofer Institutes of Germany.
Directorate of transport, Goa State Pollution Control Board, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Goa University, NIT- Goa, Solar Power Association, IGBC - Goa chapter and Amrova Power Pvt Ltd also participated in the event.
#247
More than 25,000 delegates from 140 countries will participate in the fourth edition of RE-Invest, a global renewable energy meet and expo, which will be held at Gandhinagar from Sep 16 to 18.Australia, Denmark, Germany and Norway are partner countries for the event, while high-level delegations from the US, the UK, Belgium, Oman and the UAE are expected to participate in the event.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the meet, organized by the Union new and renewable energy ministry at the Mahatma Mandir Convention Centre on Monday morning."The summit will feature over 40 sessions, 25,000 delegates from 140 countries, over 200 speakers, five plenary discussions and over 115 B2B meetings. Th partner states include Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana. The event will bring together leading financial institutions from India and around the world, along with investors, startups and key figures from the renewable energy sector," an official statement said on Friday.The statement said that apart from the opening ceremony, Day 1 of the event will feature plenary and parallel sessions that will focus on themes such as scaling green investment, green hydrogen for decarbonization, and onshore wind energy.
State energy minister Kanu Desai will outline Gujarat's strategies for expanding wind and solar energy projects on the second day of the meet. The day will also include a plenary session followed by parallel sessions on resource efficiency, bioenergy and capacity building. A high-level CEO roundtable and a session on the role of women in energy transition will also take place.Day 3 of the meet will feature sessions on bioenergy, battery energy storage, and hydropower. The valedictory session will be chaired by Vice-President Jagdeep Dhankar.
#248
Andhra Pradesh has taken up several renewable energy projects in recent times. The state currently has a 7.5 gigawatts renewable energy contracted capacity, translating to 40% of the total installed capacity of 18.8 GW.
The state could reduce 2.46 million tonnes of carbon emissions by implementing the 'Perform, Achieve and Trade' scheme in Industries. Meanwhile, the AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) will work on a roadmap to achieve the state's energy savings' target of 6.68 million tonnes of oil equivalent (mtoe) by 2030, out of the national target of 150 mtoe.
BEE director general Abhay Bakre, who chaired a virtual meeting after his participation in the Global Clean Energy Action Forum (GCEAF) meeting in Pittsburgh, United States, said that energy efficiency will assist all state governments in achieving energy security.
"This will ultimately expand economies, create jobs, reduce energy consumption, and cut greenhouse gas emissions, among other things," said Bakre. He urged other states to follow AP and Kerala, which established a dedicated body to accelerate the implementation and promotion of energy conservation and efficiency projects in their respective states.
#249
Scaling up its renewable energy generation capacity, Karnataka has set a target of adding 19.2 GW of renewable energy by 2030. Showcasing its achievements in the renewable energy sector at the fourth edition of RE-Invest 2024 at Gandhinagar in Gujarat, the energy department's additional chief secretary Gaurav Gupta said several initiatives of the state govt will help achieve this target.
Currently, the state has a capacity of 18 GW of renewable energy capacity.
Participating as one of the state partners in the three-day global conclave RE-Invest, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, Gupta said: "Karnataka has been at the forefront of renewable energy adoption under the guidance of energy minister KJ George. The RE-Invest has provided us with an opportunity to showcase our state's initiatives and investments in clean energy. We are committed to innovation and sustainability in the RE sector. The state has already implemented several initiatives to boost RE energy in the state. Our policies are designed to attract investments, streamline processes, and ensure the timely execution of projects."
The simplified land acquisition process, expedited clearances, and multiple incentives for RE energy projects in Karnataka were highlighted during the global event.
KP Rudrappaiah, managing director of Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Limited (KREDL), said: "During the financial year 2023-24 alone, we have commissioned 1,027 MW of new wind projects, and the state is at the forefront of India's energy transition journey. Karnataka is leveraging hybrid energy solutions, combining solar and wind power to ensure a stable and reliable energy supply. Our state is committed to furthering this growth by providing a conducive environment for businesses and investors."
Karnataka also bagged four awards during the global conclave for being the second highest achiever state in overall hydro capacity, the second largest RE park at Pavagada, third highest achiever state in overall solar power capacity, and third highest achiever state in overall wind power capacity.
#250
A Hyundai Motor official stated that this contract is a significant step for the group in securing renewable energy and indicated that the group will continue to invest in transitioning its U.S. facilities to renewable energy in the future.
Hyundai Motor Group announced on Monday the signing of a 174-megawatt power purchase agreement (PPA) with a solar energy project led by Spain's Matrix Renewables. This agreement will provide renewable energy for Hyundai's upcoming electric vehicle (EV) plant in the United States.The 15-year PPA with the Matrix Renewables-led Stillhouse Solar Project, spanning from 2025 to 2040, will power Hyundai Motor Group Metaplant America, the company's first dedicated EV mass production plant in the United States, currently under construction in Georgia.The renewable energy will also support Hyundai Mobis' North American business and Hyundai Steel's production plant in Georgia. According to reports from Yonhap news agency, this deal marks the largest PPA signed by a South Korean company for renewable energy use at its US facilities. Financial details were not disclosed.Hyundai estimates that the agreement will result in an annual carbon reduction of approximately 140,000 tonnes, equivalent to the emissions from around 84,000 midsize sedans over one year. A Hyundai Motor official stated that this contract is a significant step for the group in securing renewable energy and indicated that the group will continue to invest in transitioning its U.S. facilities to renewable energy in the future.
#251
Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Ltd. (IREDA) achieved an all-time high annual Profit After Tax (PAT) of Rs. 1252.23 crore in its audited financial results for the fiscal year 2023-24, the company informed in an exchange filing on Friday.
The loan disbursement amount of IREDA also increased to all time high. The Loan Book (lending) of IREDA increased from Rs.
47,052.52 crores as on 31st March 2023 to Rs. 59,698.11 crores as on 31st March 2024, a growth of 26.81%. The company has also achieved all-time high annual Loan Sanctions of Rs. 37,353.68 crore and Disbursements of Rs. 25,089.04 crore in FY 2023-24, an increase of 14.63% and 15.94% respectively, over the previous financial year.
"IREDA's steadfast commitment to accelerating the adoption of renewable energy solutions in India, indicating a promising trajectory for investors and stakeholders" said Pradip Kumar Das, Chairman & Managing Director of IREDA.
The net-worth of the company as on 31st March 2024 reached Rs. 8,559.43 crore compared to Rs. 5,935.17 crore as of 31st March 2023, indicating an increase of 44.22%. It indicates an increase of 44.22%.
The company showed a growth of 44.83% over the previous fiscal year 2022-23 and has reduced its Net Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) to 0.99% in FY 2023-24 from 1.66% in FY 2022-23, marking a reduction of 40.52% year-on-year.
The Board of Directors commended IREDA's performance during a meeting held at the Registered Office, where they approved the Audited Financial Results for FY 2023-24.
Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Ltd. (IREDA) is a Mini Ratna (Category - I) Government of India Enterprise under the administrative control of Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE).
It is India's largest green financing NBFC (Non-Banking Financial Company) which provides financial assistance and other services to projects related to renewable sources of energy and energy efficiency/conservation.
IREDA was established in 1987 engaged in promoting, developing and extending financial assistance for setting up projects relating to new and renewable sources of energy and energy efficiency/conservation.
#252
India's unconstrained renewable energy potential exceeds 24,000 GW, but scaling it beyond 1,500 GW will face considerable land, water, population and climate challenges, says a latest study by the Council on Energy Environment & Water (CEEW).
According to the study titled 'Unlocking India's RE and Green Hydrogen Potential: An Assessment of Land, Water, and Climate Nexus,' even reaching the over 7,000 GW required to achieve net-zero emissions by 2070 will require "addressing challenges such as land access, climate risks, land conflicts, and population density".
India currently has an installed RE capacity of 150 GW, and up to 1,500 GW, the constraints are relatively manageable, says the report. But deployment beyond 1,500 GW could face critical challenges as multiple constraints intensify.
The study predicted that green hydrogen production could reach 40 MTPA by 2050, at a cost lower than $3.5/kg, but water management is critical.
The study threw up new renewable energy hot spots with Odisha and Madhya Pradesh emerging as new potentials. According to the study, Tamil Nadu has a significantly lower cost of generation than other states due to a high wind PLF, with a potential of 50 GW at an LCOE lower than Rs 2.65 per kWh.
Large solar potential exists in Rajasthan (6464 GW), Madhya Pradesh (2978 GW), and Maharashtra (2409 GW) at LCOEs lower than Rs 2.8 kwh.
The study said India's biggest limiting factor is population density with only 29% of onshore wind potential and 27% of solar potential located in areas with a population density lower than 250 people/sq km. Land conflicts further restrict deployment, with only about 35% of onshore wind potential and 41% of solar potential located in areas free from historical land conflicts.
Dr Arunabha Ghosh, CEO, CEEW, said, "While our RE potential is vast, the road to net zero is fraught with challenges from land conflicts and population density to the unpredictable but undeniable impact of climate change."
#253
A surge in demand for power is set to drive higher debt-funded investments by renewable energy companies, increasing the risk of default, according to a report by Moody's Ratings. Simultaneously, a surge in demand for power will result in coal continuing to play a major role in meeting India's energy requirements.
Renewable energy and electricity transmission will continue to be the primary focus of investments in India's power sector over the next six to seven years.
However, a significant increase in capital spending for renewable energy companies will lead to high financial leverage over the next three years, which is a credit negative, the report said.
India aims to achieve 500GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030, necessitating an annual addition of around 44GW. Meeting these targets will require an investment of $190 billion to $215 billion over the next seven years. Additionally, another $150 billion to $170 billion will be needed for electricity transmission, distribution, and energy storage.
Despite the sizable pipelines of announced projects, the financial leverage of rated renewable power companies is expected to remain high over the next two to three years. In contrast, the leverage of government-related issuers is likely to stay moderate according to the Moody's report.
Meanwhile, coal will remain a crucial source of electricity generation in the next 8-10 years, mitigating stranding risks for coal-based power assets. India is expected to add 40GW-50GW of coal-based capacity over the next five to six years to meet the growing power demand, anticipated to increase by 5%-6% annually. The utilization rate for coal-based capacity is likely to remain high at around 65%-70% despite these additions.
Strong policy support has been instrumental in increasing the share of renewable energy in India's power capacity mix to approximately 43% in fiscal 2023-2024. Continued policy support will be crucial for India to make significant progress toward its 2030 transition targets and 2070 net-zero targets. Renewable energy projects are projected to be the largest contributors to new power generation capacity in India over the next six to seven years.
To optimally utilize the new generation capacity, total grid investments, including storage, are expected to range between $150 billion and $170 billion. The share of renewable energy in the overall capacity mix will continue to rise beyond 2030. India's power sector, the largest driver of greenhouse gas emissions, has seen its renewable capacity grow at a compound annual rate of 10% over the last decade.
The country is likely to meet its 2030 target of having more than 50% of its cumulative electric power installed capacity from non-fossil fuel-based resources. As of March 2024, non-fossil fuel capacity contributed 45% of installed power generation capacity.
Leading renewable energy independent power producers in India, with aggressive expansion plans largely funded by debt, will play a significant role in this energy transition. The total installed capacity of key renewable energy companies grew from 5GW in fiscal 2017 to 25GW in fiscal 2024. NHPC Limited plans to more than double its installed capacity in the coming years, but its substantial capital spending program will strain its financial profile.
Despite the planned expansion in renewable energy, coal's share in India's power generation is expected to remain above 50% over the next decade, due to its reliability and the relatively young age of the coal-based capacity. The enhanced use of battery storage, pumped storage hydro, and hydrogen will gradually reduce coal's dominance over time.
#254
The Union Power Ministry has amended the Electricity Promoting Renewable Energy through Green Energy Open Access Rules with respect to banking of energy and levying cross subsidy surcharge on power produced from wastetoenergy plants. Experts say it will benefit wind and solar energy generators in Tamil Nadu. The amendment was published in the Gazette on January 27. The term month' has been replaced with the term cycle' in the amendment which is crucial for wind and solar energy generators. In Tamil Nadu, the banking facility to keep the excess energy produced in the generators' account to be compensated later is provided for a year the banking period varies from state to state. When Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission tried to change it for a month as per the rules that existed, it was opposed by the wind energy generators and appellate tribunal since the word month' itself has been replaced as cycles' tnerc cannot alter the banking period until the union government or the central electricity authority comes up with a definition for the word cycle'.
The Union power ministry has amended the electricity (promoting renewable energy through green energy open access) rules with respect to banking of energy and levying cross subsidy surcharge on power produced from waste-to-energy plants. Experts say it will benefit wind and solar energy generators in Tamil Nadu, the top wind energy producing state in the country.
The term 'month' has been replaced with the term 'cycle' in the amendment which is crucial for wind and solar energy generators. "In Tamil Nadu, the banking facility (to keep the excess energy produced in the generators' account to be compensated later) is provided for a year. The banking period varies from state to state.
When Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) tried to change it for a month as per the rules that existed, it was opposed by the wind energy generators and appellate tribunal. Since the word 'month' itself has been replaced as 'cycles', TNERC cannot alter the banking period until the Union government or the central electricity authority comes up with a definition for the word 'cycle'," said Muthusamy, a former TNERC director.
K Venkatachalam, chief adviser to Tamil Nadu Spinning Mills Association, a body of wind energy generators largely for captive use, said the amendment appears to be in favour of wind and solar energy generators and added that rules have to be studied to understand the implications. 
#255
The last date for submission of application under the Renewable Energy Services Company (RESCO) has been extended to April 20. Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), which has been designated the executing agency for implementation of renewable energy projects of the department of science and technology UT, recently launched a scheme for installation of grid-connected rooftop (GCRT) power projects for domestic consumers.
This was to be done by a third party under the Renewable Energy Services Company (RESCO) with build operate and transfer (BOT) model. All residential sectors, irrespective of plot size, will be covered under the scheme. The benefit would be provided on first-come, first-serve basis. The scheme included zero investment and flat solar tariff of Rs 3.29 per unit for around 15 years till the time of transfer of the plant to the beneficiary and free of cost operation and maintenance of the plant for around 15 years till its transfer.
"Applications were invited from the residential sector up to March 31, 2023. On request of several residents who are yet to submit their application for this innovative scheme for installation of solar power plant at zero cost, the last date of submission of application has been extended upto April 20, 2023. The residents have to apply online at www.solar.chd.gov.in under the RESCO registration head. tnn
#256
West Bengal is aiming to take its renewable energy generation to 20 per cent of the total installed capacity by 2030, a senior official said on Friday. At present, the renewable energy share of the total installed capacity is 5 per cent, she said.
"We have set the target of generating energy from renewable sources at 20 per cent by 2030," said Nandini Chakravorty, the principal secretary of the Non-conventional and Renewable Energy Sources Department.
Speaking at a conclave organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), she said rooftop solar panels have been installed in 1,954 schools of the state and work was underway to add another 1,890 schools to the list.
"These initiatives will not only help us reduce carbon emission and achieve net zero sooner than the target, but also is a progress toward sustainable development. We intend to focus on the textile, horticulture and agricultural sectors for increased usage of renewable sources," Chakravorty said.
State Power Secretary S Suresh Kumar said carbon emission has to be reduced for a sustainable future, but a huge investment is required for it. PTI BSM SOM SOM
#257
Adani Group will invest about Rs 2.3 lakh crore through 2030 in India's most ambitious renewable energy expansion and solar and wind manufacturing capacity addition ever as it shrugs off a short-seller attack to pursue its trademark rapid growth plans. Adani Green Energy Ltd, India's largest renewable energy company, will invest about Rs 1.5 lakh crore in expanding capacity to generate electricity from solar energy and wind power at Khavda in Gujarat's Kutch to 30 gigawatts from 2 GW currently and another Rs 50,000 crore in 6-7 GW of similar projects elsewhere in the country, a top company official said.Adani New Industries Ltd (ANIL), a unit in the group's flagship Adani Enterprises Ltd, will invest close to Rs 30,000 crore in expanding solar cell and wind turbine manufacturing capacity at Mundra in Gujarat.AGEL, which currently has an operating portfolio of 10,934 megawatts (10.93 GW), is targeting 45 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030. 30 GW of this will come up at just one location at Khavda - the world's largest renewable energy project."We have just now commissioned 2,000 MW (2 GW) of capacity at Khavda and plan to add 4 GW in the current fiscal (financial year ending March 2025) and 5 GW every year thereafter," said Vneet S Jaain, Managing Director, AGEL.
To support these plans as well as meet requirements of other domestic renewable players and export market, ANIL plans to expand its cell and module manufacturing facility at Mundra to 10 GW by 2026-27 from current 4 GW, Jaain, who is also a director on the board of ANIL, said.Crystalline silicon is turned into cells capable of converting sun rays into electric current and mounted on modules before being placed in high radiation areas such as Khavda. Electricity thus generated is wired to the transmission grid for onward movement to customers.Besides solar manufacturing, ANIL is also doubling capacity to make windmills that generate electricity from wind, to 5 GW in three-and-a-half years, he said.Adani Group which spans from seaports to electricity generation and transmission, natural gas distribution, mining, copper production, airports, data centre and commodities business, has a capital expenditure outlay of Rs 1.2 lakh crore for 2024-25 fiscal (April 2024 to March 2025).The group's renewable energy plans are the most ambitious by any corporate in the country which is targeting to generate 500 GW of electricity from non-fossil sources by 2030 as part of a broader plan of achieving net-zero emissions by 2070.Khavda, spread over 538 square kilometres which is the equivalent of five times the area that the city of Paris does, will at peak generate 81 billion units that can power entire nations such as Belgium, Chile and Switzerland. AGEL's other project sites are in Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu.The massive clean power generation park is located in barren land close to the border with Pakistan.Jaain said the 30 GW planned at Khavda would comprise 26 GW of solar and 4 GW of wind capacity.AGEL's existing operational portfolio comprises 7,393 MW solar, 1,401 MW wind and 2,140 MW wind-solar hybrid capacity.Its current portfolio of 10,934 MW, which will power more than 5.8 million homes and avoid about 21 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions annually, represents around 11 per cent of India's installed utility-scale solar and wind capacity, contributing over 15 per cent of the nation's utility-scale solar installations.The renewable energy push comes as the apples-to-airport conglomerate shrugs off the impact of Hindenburg Research that in January last year published allegations that Adani companies had engaged in share price manipulation and accounting fraud.The group has refuted all allegations, which caused the combined market capitalisation of its listed companies to fall by USD 150 billion at their worst point. Its chairman Gautam Adani has in recent months stated that the group's balance sheet was "healthier than ever before".In the immediate aftermath of the short-seller report, Adani has reassured investors and bondholders by slowing some investment plans, paying down share-backed debt and selling stakes to outside backers, including Florida-based investment firm GQG Partners. But now it is back to its breakneck speed expansion, switching back-to-back deals including one with Reliance Industries Ltd of rival billionaire Mukesh Ambani.
#258
Juniper Green Energy, an independent renewable energy power producer and operator, on Wednesday inked two separate power purchase agreements (PPA) for renewable energy projects in Gujarat and Rajasthan. The company has significant experience in conceptualising, building, and developing solar, wind, and hybrid power projects.The first agreement with Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) under wind phase VI, involves the development of a standalone 90 MW wind project in Gujarat, which is projected to generate approximately 293 million units (MUs) of electricity annually.This project is expected to offset around 2,66,002 tonne of Co2 emissions and provide electricity to an estimated 56,539 households in the state.Additionally, the second PPA (Power Purchase Agreement) has been signed with the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) under hybrid tranche VII, to develop a 150 MW wind-solar hybrid power project in Gujarat and Rajasthan.The project is poised to generate about 477 MU of electricity annually, providing power to 95,079 households, offsetting 445,796 tonne of Co2 emissions annually."Partnering with SECI and GUVNL on these projects embodies our forward-thinking approach and commitment to harnessing the synergy of wind and solar energy. These initiatives not only leverage the strengths of both wind and solar energy but also reinforce our commitment to delivering green energy solutions that are both reliable and environmentally responsible," said Naresh Mansukhani, CEO, Juniper Green Energy. 
#259

The installed capacity of renewable energy in Maharashtra increased by 9% in 2022-23 as compared to the previous financial year, and the state now ranks fifth in the country after Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, revealed the state economic survey for 2022-23.
The installed capacity of renewable energy in Maharashtra increased by 9% in 2022-23 as compared to the previous financial year, and the state now ranks fifth in the country after Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, revealed the state economic survey for 2022-23.
"The state has been taking efforts in promoting clean energy to ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all," the report mentioned.
The installed capacity of renewable energy was 11,400 MW (including 3,352 MW of solar) in 2022-23, the report stated, as compared to 10,502 MW in 2021-22 and 9846 MW in 2020-21. This included solar, wind, hydro, and waste to energy.
The report said, "Renewable Purchase Obligation also improved for all power utilities in state for 2022." As for the electricity distribution losses, the report stated that all power firms, except BEST, showed a drop in losses.
BEST undertaking which had power distribution losses of 4.63 % in 2021-22 witnessed a rise of 4.73% in losses in 2022-23. The losses are mainly due to power thefts, sources said.
#260
Chief minister Mohan Yadav participated in a roundtable conference with industrialists at Sagar in the fourth Regional Industry Conclave on Friday where he discussed the numerous opportunities and challenges surrounding the new and renewable energy sector.
During his interactions with entrepreneurs, he emphasised the state govt's commitment to provide all necessary facilities and approvals within the stipulated time frame, as outlined in the new investment promotion policy.

He also highlighted the online services available for easier land allotment.
Chief minister Yadav said that a policy has been prepared to promote the renewable energy sector in the state, similar to the initiatives by the central govt. He urged the industrialists to leverage the govt incentives to enhance employment opportunities and innovate within their industries. He highlighted wind, solar, and hydropower as areas with significant investment potential. Additionally, he assured that the state govt is committed to implementing the ideas and suggestions put forth by the industrialists.
Principal secretary Raghavendra Kumar Singh informed about the new industrial policy of the state. He also emphasised providing basic facilities through an easy process. Industrialists also appreciated the investment policy of the state. An industrialist from Gurgaon also honoured Chief Minister Yadav during the conference.
During the second roundtable conference at the Regional Industry Conclave in Sagar, Yadav focussed on establishing enterprises in the textiles sector and addressing related challenges. He emphasised that all industries will receive support in the state and assured that industrialists' issues will be addressed through a unified platform. Yadav also engaged in discussions with start-up entrepreneurs, highlighting the significance of textiles and the need to resolve business challenges. He urged industrialists to capitalise on govt policies and facilities to expand their businesses and create more employment opportunities.
#261
India is outpacing the world when it comes to adopting renewable energy, said US Ambassador to India Eric Garcetti, on Wednesday, while calling for deeper collaboration between New Delhi and Washington to win the fight against climate change.
At an event, Garcetti highlighted the importance of deploying clean energy to support sustainable economic growth and protect vulnerable communities.
"The United States and India are the most important friends in the world. The two biggest democracies have never been close. The friendship between the leaders is most consequential in a world of aligned democracies," Garcetti said.
"I think that India and the United States together, (can) ensure that just ways (to fight climate change), with the developed world doing its part and the developing world doing its part...I'm so excited to see India, outpacing the world when it comes to renewable energy today," he added.
The US ambassador was speaking at the inaugural session of the US-India Forum on Decarbonising Pathways.
During his address, he underscored the urgency of addressing climate change, citing the need to act now for the sake of future generations.
Garcetti also conveyed that the US mission in India is also hoping to have "vibrant relationships" with state governments and at the local level to promote sustainable development.
"But my message today from Mission India is that we want to do this (transition to green energy) for the right partners in the central bank. But we also know that we have to be just as vibrant in our relationships in the state and local levels, where so much of this energy is generated and distributed," he added.
Garcetti, who also served as the mayor of Los Angeles from 2013 until 2022, highlighted the success of a campaign in Los Angeles that used supercomputers to model various scenarios for solar, hydro, and battery storage to ensure a steady stream of electricity and reduce reliance on fossil fuels.
He also reflects on a college course taught by Wallace Broecker, who predicted global warming and hopes for a future where humanity takes action to reduce carbon emissions.
The US ambassador here also emphasised the importance of deploying clean energy in a reliable, affordable, and predictable manner to support sustainable economic growth and protect vulnerable communities.
#262
Union minister of state for power and new & renewable energy, Shripad Naik, on Thursday said that the Govt of India is committed to achieving the goal of zero carbon emissions, for which efforts are underway to reduce the use of fossil fuels."Currently, our dependence on fossil fuels is 55%. By 2023, India was producing 136.57GW of renewable energy, which is planned to be increased to 170GW by the end of 2025. By 2047, this production target is 500 GW," the minister said while reviewing the progress of aspiring district plans in Aurangabad.During a press conference, he said two flagship schemes of the central govt, Pradhan Mantri Surya Ghar Yojana and Kusum Yojana were bringing revolutionary changes in solar power generation and distribution."Under the surya ghar yojana, installation of solar panels on the rooftops of residential houses is being encouraged. The central and state govts are giving subsidies for this. So far, 1.4 crore registrations have been done for this scheme, and 25 lakh applications have been received. With the implementation of this scheme, every house will become an electricity producer, and things like wires and poles will become a thing of the past.
"Describing the development work in Aurangabad as satisfactory, the Union minister said that it is among the 112 aspirational districts of the country. "Work is being done rapidly for its development, and this progress is monitored with all 81 indicators. In the Delta Ranking of November 2023, Aurangabad was ranked first in the country. In March 2024, it was ranked 25th. This ranking is being further improved," he said.
#263
India's renewable energy sector can potentially employ around one million people by 2030, which will be around ten times more than the existing workforce of an estimated 1.1 lakh employed by the sector, reveals a latest study.
At COP26 in Glasgow, the country committed to installing 500 gigawatts (GW) of non-fossil fuel-based energy capacity and generating 50% of its electricity through renewable energy sources by 2030.
Experts have predicted that most of the new capacities for electricity generation are likely to be based on solar and wind energy.
According to the independent study 'India's Expanding Clean Energy Workforce' released by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) and Skill Council for Green Jobs (SCGJ) on Thursday, most of the new jobs would be generated by small-scale renewable energy projects such as rooftop solar and mini and micro-grid systems, compared to utility or large-scale projects like solar parks.
The analysis also highlighted the adverse impact of the pandemic on employment in the clean energy sector. "In comparison to 12,400 new workers employed in the sector in 2019, only 5,200 new workers were employed in 2020, while 6,400 were employed last year," it stated. With nearly 700 million people under the age of 30, creating clean futuristic jobs is a priority for the country, stated Sameer Kwatra, director of the India Program at NRDC. "India's unprecedented renewables journey can set a new paradigm on how countries pursue prosperity without adding carbon to the atmosphere. Powering the economy through renewable energy will not only enhance energy independence, avoid carbon emissions and air pollution, but also help meet India's employment goals," Kwatra added.

Stressing on the employment and growth opportunity that the country's renewable energy targets offer, Arunabha Ghosh, CEO of CEEW said, "The upcoming Union Budget must especially focus on scaling up rooftop solar, mini and micro-grid systems and domestic solar manufacturing to maximise the employment opportunities in the sector. Further, to accelerate the deployment of solar parks and increase the uptake of decentralised renewable energy applications such as solar pumps and rooftops in rural India, it would be critical to train the rural youth and make them employable in various parts of the renewables ecosystem."
Agreeing that skill development programmes should target rural areas on this, CEO of SCGJ Praveen Saxena added that trainings on emerging technologies like batteries and green hydrogen should be provided so that a skilled workforce is available to accelerate their deployment.
The study also recommended that the country should focus on playing a bigger role in the global supply chain through improvement in local manufacturing of solar cells and panels. "Policymakers should also focus on strengthening the grid infrastructure to accommodate the high levels of variable renewable energy. These allied sectors would create additional employment opportunities," it added.
#264
Terming climate change as an "existential challenge", Vice-President Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Wednesday that renewable energy is not optional but a compulsion, calling for efforts to make the planet habitable by tackling the ill-effects of climate change.Presiding over the valedictory session of Renewable Energy Investors Meet and Expo (RE-Invest 2024), which was held over the past three days in the state capital, Dhankhar said India's knowledge about climate change emanates from scriptures like the Vedas and Upanishads and the country has taken a lead in the area when the global scenario is marked by disturbance."Interest in RE is not optional, it is compulsion. We will have to take an interest in this because this concerns our existence. And therefore, RE-Invest 2024 has the potential to be a powerful catalyst for action, an action that is the need of the hour," Dhankhar told the gathering.Terming climate change an "existential challenge", Dhankhar said that the entire world has awakened to it as "we are fully alive (to the fact) that we don't have another planet to live".He added, "And therefore there is no option but to work round the clock to bring about a scenario so that we can contain the climate change menace, then engage in its restoration, and then make this planet habitable," he said.
Dhankhar said that India, with its civilizational depth of 5,000 years, has taken a lead in the fight against climate change. "Our knowledge about climate change emanates from our Vedas and Upanishads. And therefore, a change was initiated from this land," he added.To tackle climate change, there is a need to create an ecosystem with holistic involvement of all, he commented. "This country has become an epicentre to bring about harmony in the world ... India has given a clarion call ... All agencies in the globe need to converge to tackle and address the menace of climate change. And in this, every individual has a role to play," he said, adding that energy needs to be consumed in a sustainable manner."India is no longer a sleeping giant, a sleeping elephant. It is on the rise. And the rise is incremental and for the benefit of one and all," he said. Dhankhar observed that the development that India is witnessing is "soothing" and it is among the handful of countries with a focus on green hydrogen.The valedictory function of RE-Invest 2024 was attended by state governor Acharya Devvrat, CM Bhupendra Patel and Union ministers Pralhad Joshi and Bhupender Yadav, and others.
#265
The state government on Wednesday said that its Renewable Energy Policy 2023 will enable Gujarat to source 50% of its energy from renewable (RE) sources and will help achieve India's ambitious target of reducing carbon emissions by 45% by 2030.
Gujarat currently contributes 15% to India's RE capacity and is one of the fastest growing renewable energy-producing regions.

The state government announced a land allotment policy that offers benefits to companies investing in green hydrogen projects.
According to the policy, companies must achieve 50% of their green hydrogen production capacity in five years of plant commissioning and 100% in eight years.
A state government statement on Wednesday said delegations held meetings with leading companies from France, Japan, South Korea, Australia and Singapore, along with companies in India that are engaged in production of green hydrogen, and discussed opportunities in Gujarat.
Companies that have expressed interest in investment cater to sub-sectors such as alternative fuel production, gas/technology-related solutions infrastructure, lithium-ion battery manufacturing, solar photovoltaic module manufacturing, decarbonization initiatives and green hydrogen production, the statement said.
Danish maritime companies also expressed interest in procuring green methanol and green ethanol from Gujarat ports.
The statement said MoUs have been signed with companies such as MeOH Giga Battery (Australia) and Australian Premium Solar Pty Ltd (Australia) to expand Gujarat's renewable energy base.
Indian companies such as Welspun and Kiri Industries signed MoUs with Lili Navitas (Germany) and Sundronix (Germany) to facilitate the export of green hydrogen and green ammonia to Europe. Shakti Group has signed an MoU to invest Rs 1,000 crore in the manufacture of green methanol and green ethanol in the state.
Adani Total Gas launches green hydrogen blending project in Ahmedabad
Adani Total Gas Limited (ATGL) launches green hydrogen blending project in Ahmedabad to assess its viability as an alternative energy source for CGD consumers. The pilot project involves blending green hydrogen with natural gas for 4,000 home and commercial PNG customers. Green hydrogen is produced using renewable energy through electrolysis. The project is expected to be commissioned by FY 2025, gradually increasing the percentage of green hydrogen in the blend. ATGL aims to enhance infrastructure, diversify energy mix, develop hydrogen ecosystem, and reduce CO2 emissions.
Gujarat chief minister visits Yamanashi Hydrogen Company in Japan, invites it to Vibrant Gujrat Summit
Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel visited Yamanashi Hydrogen Company in Japan to discuss the potential of the green hydrogen energy sector for his state. He learned about the company's demand, sales, and servicing abilities and invited the Governor of Yamanashi to attend the upcoming Vibrant Gujrat Summit. Patel also highlighted India's initiatives under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, including the commitment to net zero carbon emissions and the National Green Hydrogen Mission. Gujarat aims to reach 100 GW in the renewable energy portfolio.
Godrej & Boyce targets 50% revenues from `good and green products by 2032
Godrej & Boyce sets sustainability targets for 2032, aiming to derive 50% of revenues from 'good & green' products. The company emphasizes stringent environmental and social parameters for its Good & Green products. Milestones achieved in the last decade include generating one-third of revenues from this approach, facilitating over 600 green buildings, doubling energy productivity, and providing vocational skills training. The next decade's targets include earning 50% of revenues from Good & Green Products, increasing energy productivity by 60%, reducing carbon intensity by 60%, and achieving 40% renewable energy share.
#266
In India during FY 23-24, renewable energy (RE) contributed more than 70 per cent of the 26 GW (GigaWatt) of new power generated in the country.India's total installed energy capacity has now reached 442 GW, with RE comprising approximately 33 per cent (144 GW) and hydro contributing 11 per cent (47 GW), according to the report by CEEW Centre for Energy Finance (CEEW-CEF).The share of Coal in India's total installed capacity fell below the 50 per cent mark for the first time.The report further highlights that solar energy, including both grid-scale and rooftop installations, continued to dominate India's RE capacity addition, constituting approximately 81 per cent (15 GW) of the total RE addition in FY24.The wind capacity addition nearly doubled, reaching 3.3 GW compared to 2.3 GW in FY23. Additionally, nuclear capacity (1.4 GW) was added for the first time since FY17.In line with India's ambitious renewable energy targets, RE auctions soared to a record high, reaching approximately 41 GW of auctioned capacity in FY24.Furthermore, the report highlighted the conclusion of eight auctions with energy storage components, indicating a growing shift towards innovative power procurement formats."Around 95 per cent of India's targeted 50 GW annual RE bidding trajectory was met in FY24. Bids of 47.5 GW that were issued are approximately three times the RE capacity that has been added annually in recent years" said Gagan Sidhu, Director, CEEW-CEF.The report also noted a rise in peak power demand, reaching a new high of 240 GW in FY24. Factors contributing to this included a fast-growing economy and weather anomalies such as lower-than-expected rainfall and above-normal temperatures."In renewable energy, FY24 saw several policy moves to shift gears beyond utility-scale RE. For instance, PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana was introduced to increase rooftop solar installation in the residential segment, which could result in the addition of 30 GW" said Riddhi Mukherjee, Research Analyst, CEEW-CEF.The report also highlights that the amendments made by the Ministry of Power to the Electricity Rules of 2022, mandating the sale of un-requisitioned surplus power on exchanges, are expected to enhance supply-side liquidity and promote competitive prices on power exchanges.
#267
To explore investment opportunities in Bihar's renewable energy sector, Australian Consul-General in Kolkata Hugh Boylan on Monday called on state's energy, planning & development minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav at Vidyut Bhawan here.
Boylan, who is on a two-day visit to the state, engaged in extensive discussions with the minister, highlighting Australia's interest in investing in the rapidly growing renewable energy sector in Bihar.

According to a recent central government survey, Bihar has the potential to generate 16,000 MW of non-conventional energy, with 11,200 MW from solar energy and 3,650 MW from wind energy.
During the meeting, Yadav provided an overview of the ongoing initiatives in Bihar's renewable energy sector, emphasizing the state's commitment to fostering an investment-friendly environment.
The minister also detailed the policies in place that make Bihar an attractive destination for foreign investment in renewable energy. Senior officials, including state's energy secretary Pankaj Kumar Pal, the South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited's managing director Mahendra Kumar and the North Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited's managing director Nilesh Deore were also present.
"The Consul-General expressed optimism about future collaborations, noting that Australian companies are expected to visit Bihar soon to explore potential investments in solar energy," a power sector official present at the meeting told TOI on Monday.

During their meeting, Yadav said that Bihar is steadily advancing in the energy sector, with a significant focus on renewable energy alternatives to meet the state's growing demand. He highlighted the state's efforts to attract capital investment and noted that Australia's interest is a positive step towards a practical partnership in this domain.
"Many districts in north Bihar, with its numerous rivers, canals, and ponds, offer ideal locations for floating solar power plants. Two such plants have already been commissioned in Darbhanga and Supaul districts. In south Bihar, where several treeless hills exist, the state is exploring the potential for installing solar power plants," Yadav told the Consul-General.
Energy Secretary Pal emphasized the state's commitment to promoting non-conventional energy under the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Mission. He noted that solar panels have been installed on over 3,500 government buildings, with plans to equip 9,000 more buildings within the next two years. Bihar is rapidly installing solar streetlights in all panchayats, he said.
#268
Gujarat and Rajasthan are advancing in the installed capacity of renewable energy, and industry and consumer associations in Tamil Nadu have urged the govt to take proactive measures to foster growth of this sector. This will help meet the anticipated spike in power demand, they say.
In June 2023, Gujarat's installed wind power capacity was 10,400MW, while TN's was 10,100MW. On Oct 31 this year, TN's installed wind power capacity is 11,128MW against Gujarat's 12,314 MW. In solar power, TN, with an installed capacity of 9,324.05 MW, is third in the country after Rajasthan and Gujarat. Karnataka, with an installed solar power capacity of 8,930MW on Oct 31, is catching up with TN.
Tamil Nadu Electricity Consumers' Association president Pradeep Natarajan said TN cantake the lead in the green energy space by leveraging its inherent strengths in renewable energy and aligning with national goals. "Easing solar rooftop networking charges, extending banking facilities to wind and solar power producers, promoting stored energy technologies, and accelerating wind and biomass projects will unlock the vast potential of renewable energy and create employment opportunities."
Renewable Energy Producers Association chief adviser K Venkatachalam said TN's policy is not friendly to consumers and industries and is hindering its ability to compete with other states. "Network charges for solar projects are almost equated with wheeling charges of wind power, though their very concept is different from each other. Similarly, open access charges and banking charges discourage investors."
#269
New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has set a target to achieve a complete renewable energy-based electricity supply in its jurisdiction by Dec 2026.
NDMC has concluded initial arrangements with the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) to receive 200 MW of solar power over 25 years, and work is in progress on two more projects.
"At present, 55 MW of energy is being procured and used by NDMC from renewable energy (solar energy) from Satluj Jal Vidhyut Nigam, a PSU. In comparison, NDMC's maximum power demand in summer goes up to 412 MW, and the average demand is 250 MW. The average demand in winter is 125-130 MW. Though NDMC is self-sufficient, and no power is being purchased from exchange centres during summer, plans to make permanent arrangements are under way," an official said.
NDMC aims to achieve a total procurement of 425 MW from renewable sources of energy through combined solar and hydro projects. To meet the gap, a purchase and sale agreement has been signed with SECI for the procurement of 200 MW of solar power for 25 years. Further, two more similar agreements for procuring 120 MW of hybrid power and 50 MW of hydro power are under consideration.
"We are expecting the signing of a power purchase agreement with NHPC for the procurement of 120 MW through hybrid power (including wind, solar, and battery energy solar systems) under the Renewable Energy Implementing Agencies (REIA) scheme of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). While consent has already been provided, the case is under consideration for approval by the council. Further, another proposal for procuring 50 MW of hydro power for 40 years is waiting for approval from the council," an NDMC official said.
Officials said that supplying power through hydro and solar energy will bring down tariffs. "The landing cost for under-consideration hydro power and solar energy will be much lower. However, the final rates will be firmed up by the regulatory authority," an official had said earlier.
#270
The crypto industry and its mining activities are often criticized severely for being environmentally unsustainable in nature. The excessive, unutilized renewable energy in Australia is a case worth studying and knowing from this perspective. We discuss the energy scenario of the country and how crypto mining can help achieve a power equilibrium and sustainability.
It's important at first to take stock of the renewable energy surplus in Australia that can be leveraged by crypto industry:
* In 2020, the highest increase in renewable energy was in large-scale solar of 135%, followed by small-scale solar power at 25% and gas-fired power generation at 21% .
* Wind-generated accounted for 19% power.
* According to the data of the Australian Energy Market Operator published in October 2021, more than 31.5% of Australia's electricity was powered by renewable energy from July to September 2021.
* Renewable energy further powered 61.4 % of the nation's power grid between 1pm to 1.30pm on September 24, 2021.
Energy issues faced by the country :-
Australia faces a disharmony between maximum generation of inexhaustible energy and maximum consumption hours.

* Sally Torgoman, energy sector partner at KPMG Australia said to Forkast that Australia faces demand and supply challenges.
* Despite the countrywide high-per capita rooftop solar installation, Australians sell power back to the grid, which has led to a decrease of the renewable energy price.
* In addition, the coal powered thermal power plants mostly run continuously on a 24x7 cycle, which prevents the consumption of solar energy and leads to daytime energy surplus.
How can the crypto mining and blockchain industry solve the problem ?
Many crypto companies in Australia have been advocating the consumption and absorption of renewable power to fill in the void in the demand of renewable energy. Besides eminent experts involved in the energy sector also think along similar lines :
* Sally Torgoman believes that Bitcoin mining will certainly augment the green energy consumption at specific periods during the daytime and put an end to the price discrepancy between day and night electricity rates.
* The Bitcoin mining companies in Australia have been affirming to use renewable energy responsibly and with a community-centric approach by closing their working during inclement weather condition, energy disruption.
* Daniel Roberts, co-founder and CEO of Iris Energy, an Australian sustainable Bitcoin mining company believes that energy consumed in maintaining Bitcoin's blockchain ledger will enable a market price point for regionally produced renewable energy and encourage new investment in the sector.
- Iris Energy currently runs a 30MW data center in Canal Flats, British Columbia and has a number of sites under development in Australia.
- The company that runs on smart demand model concept, mines only when there is availability of excess renewable energy and prioritizes consumer interest ahead of its own usage. It powers down its mining operations during a surge of consumer demand.
#271
The state govt has decided to set up renewable energy zones to promote green energy power plants. The govt has also promised to provide Viability Gap Funding (VGF) to the plants set up with ultra-modern technology. The govt issued detailed guidelines for Integrated Clean Energy Policy (ICEP) to boost investment inflow into the state.
Special chief secretary (energy) K Vijayananad said that the govt has decided to encourage largescale development of Renewable Energy Manufacturing zones (REMZ) which would accommodate RE manufacturing projects (solar, wind, battery and electrolyzers manufacturing).
He said that AP State Power Corporation Limited (APSPCL) will act as the nodal agency for REMZ and in coordination with other departments to establish REMZs as a dedicated manufacturing hub.
"APSPCL will provide last mile connectivity for power, roads, water, to each of the manufacturing units within the REMZ. It will develop the plug and play infrastructure for REMZ which would subsequently be recovered from developers located in the REMZ by levying development charges," said Vijayanand.
He said that REMZ developer would have to develop necessary infrastructure required for REMZ such as power evacuation system, administrative building, infrastructure including road, water, drains, ducts and the developer will be allowed to recover applicable charges from project developers including lease charges, infrastructure/ development charges, utilities charges, O&M charges for infrastructure, O&M of plant.
He said that the govt directed APSPCL to encourage and promote NIRE technologies in the state. NIRE technologies including offshore, geothermal, tidal, other oceanic energies, storage (other than PSP and BESS), carbon capture and sequestration.
He said that the state govt would also provide Viability Gap Funding (VGF) or capital subsidy at 20% for the demonstration/ pilot projects with capacity not exceeding 5 MW with a maximum limit of Rs.5 crores/project. The capital subsidy shall be disbursed to developer in a phased manner with 10% before commencement of operations (COD) and 10% after COD within two years.
The govt has also decided to set up a university for Green Energy and Circular Economy, under Public Private Partnership (PPP) route which shall play a pivotal role in creation of manpower for Clean Energy Projects and RE manufacturing projects.
"The new university will be dynamic knowledge and training hub for clean energy, with training facilities for corporates and certification programs. Varsity will involve active industry participation, partnership with academia, think tanks and industry and build intellectual capital for clean energy sector along with technology transfer," said Vijayanand.
He said that the proposed university will focus on creating a talent pool across the clean energy projects value chain in the state by focusing on tailormade curriculum to meet clean energy industry requirements. It will bring new programs with innovative pedagogies in collaboration with industry and academia. 
#272
India's subsidies for renewable energy and electric vehicles more than doubled this fiscal, according to a new study by independent think-tank International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD). However, it also found that it will be critical for the government to build this momentum over the coming years to reach the country's climate targets.
The study, 'Mapping India's Energy Policy 2022', highlighted that subsidies for renewable energy reached Rs 11,529 crore in financial year 2022, which is significantly more than Rs 5,774 crore in last fiscal.

Also, support for electric vehicles in the same period jumped 160% from Rs 906 crore to a record-high Rs 2,358 crore.
As per researchers, this rise is the result of greater policy stability, a 155% jump in the installation of solar photovoltaic, and the post-COVID-19 economic resurgence. "Yet, to confirm this trend, the government needs to further enhance the support measures including subsidies, public finance, and investments by publicly owned companies over the next few years to reach 500 gigawatt (GW) of non-fossil capacity by 2030 and become net-zero by 2070," researchers warned.
Stressing on the country's climate goals, policy advisor at IISD and co-author of the study Swasti Raizada said, "Continued support for fossil fuels is out of step with India's long-term objectives of energy access, energy security, and addressing climate change. Aligning government's support with its climate targets will require shifting support from fossil fuels to clean energy, including developing a clear investment plan and interim targets to reach its long-term goal of net-zero by 2070."
Subsidies for coal, fossil gas, and oil totalled Rs 60,316 crore this year, having fallen by 76% since 2014 in real terms, the study found. "Most notably, oil and gas subsidies fell by 28% to Rs 4,383 crore in 2022. But this does not include foregone revenue from cuts in excise and VAT on diesel and petrol. Overall, India provided at least Rs 5 lakh crore to support the energy sector, including over Rs 2.2 lakh crore in the form of subsidies," it added.
While fossil fuels yielded important financial returns for the government, with energy accounting for nearly a fifth (19%) of all government revenue in 2022 at Rs9 lakh crore, IISD experts found that the social costs of energy were at least four times higher than government revenue.
"The government has the perfect opportunity to use these massive energy revenues strategically to help people and businesses transition to clean energy. In the long run, this will not only reduce the social costs of fossil fuels but shape a cleaner and more affordable energy system in India," said Raizada.
India's subsidies for renewable energy and electric vehicles more than doubled this fiscal
Subsidies for renewable energy reached Rs 11,529 crore in financial year 2022
Oil and gas subsidies fell by 28% to Rs 4,383 crore in 2022
Overall, India provided at least Rs 5 lakh crore to support the energy sector
#273
India's renewable energy capacity surged to 203.18 GW in October 2024, a 13.5% increase driven by significant growth in solar and wind energy. Including nuclear, non-fossil fuel capacity reached 211.36 GW. Projects under implementation and those tendered signal continued momentum in India's clean energy transition.
India's collective renewable energy capacity saw an annual surge of 24.2 GW or 13.5 per cent aligning with India's ambitious targets in the field of renewable energy sector, reaching 203.18 GW in October 2024 as compared to 178.98 GW in the corresponding period last year, as per an official statement ministry of new and renewable energy.The total non-fossil fuel capacity, inclusive of nuclear energy, rose to 211.36 GW in the current fiscal year, compared to 186.46 GW in 2023, it stated.
The solar sector experienced a significant growth of 20.1 GW (27.9 per cent), rising from 72.02 GW in October 2023 to 92.12 GW in October 2024. As per the statement, the total solar capacity, including projects under implementation and tendered, now stands at 250.57 GW, reflecting a significant rise from 166.49 GW last year.
Wind capacity
Wind energy also showed consistent growth, with its installed capacity rising by 7.8 per cent, from 44.29 GW in October 2023 to 47.72 GW in October 2024. Total capacity in the pipeline for wind projects has now reached 72.35 GW.
Hydro capacity
Major hydro projects have contributed 46.93 GW to India's renewable portfolio till October 2024, while nuclear power capacity stands at 8.18 GW.Between April and October 2024, India added 12.6 GW of renewable energy capacity.
In October 2024 alone, 1.72 GW was installed, signaling an accelerated transition to renewable energy.The renewable energy projects under implementation and tendered saw significant expansion, with 143.94 GW under implementation and 89.69 GW tendered as of October 2024.This marks a significant rise from the 99.08 GW under implementation and 55.13 GW tendered as of October 2023, demonstrating steady progress toward India's clean energy goals. 
#274
US investment in wind and solar power plants falls short of climate change goals. Electric vehicle sales meet forecasts, but more capacity is needed. Clean energy installations are likely to fall short of projections.
US investment in wind and solar power plants hit record levels last year, but even that dramatic rate of expansion fell short of the level needed to meet the nation's climate change goals, according to an analysis published on Wednesday.
A joint report by researchers from Princeton University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Rhodium Group and the non-profit Energy Innovation analyzed US progress in making investments needed to achieve a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 - an objective outlined in President Joe Biden's 2022 landmark climate change law, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).
The findings were mixed.
Large clean energy installations for utilities are being stymied by permitting and grid interconnection delays and challenges sourcing equipment, the report said, while sales of electric vehicles are meeting researchers' forecasts.
The IRA provides generous tax credits for EVs and clean energy technologies like wind and solar farms.
Zero-emission vehicles accounted for 9.2% of light-duty sales last year, at the high end of a projected range of 8.1% to 9.4%, according to the report. EV sales growth this year is likely to underperform last year's 50% increase, the groups said, but will remain on track to meet US climate goals if kept within 30% to 40%.
Zero-emissions electricity generation and storage soared 32% last year to 32.3 gigawatts, but lagged the research groups' models calling for annual additions of 46 to 79 GW.
The US must add 60 to 127 GW of capacity this year to stay on track, the report said, adding that installations are likely to fall short of that range.
Beyond 2024, the groups said clean energy installations should increase even further to between 70 and 126 GW a year.
#275
Federal energy regulators on Monday approved a long-awaited rule to make it easier to transmit renewable energy such as wind and solar power to the electric grid - a key part of President Joe Biden's goal to eliminate carbon emissions economy-wide by 2050.
The rule, under development for two years, is aimed at boosting the nation's aging power grid to meet surging demand fueled by huge data centers, electrification of vehicles and buildings, artificial intelligence and other uses.

The increased demand comes as coal-fired power plants continue to be retired amid competition from natural gas, and other energy sources face increasingly strict federal pollution rules, setting up what experts say could be a crisis for electric reliability.
The grid is also being tested by more frequent service disruptions during extreme weather events driven by climate change.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved the new rule, 2-1, with Chairman Willie Phillips and fellow Democratic commissioner Allison Clements voting in favor. Republican Mark Christie opposed the rule, dismissing it as a gift to solar and wind power operators.
The sprawling, 1,300-page rule, which addresses transmission planning and cost allocations, will enhance the country's aging grid and ensure US homes and businesses keep the lights on for decades to come, Phillips said.
"This rule cannot come fast enough,'' he said at a packed commission meeting at the agency's Washington headquarters. "Our grid cannot wait.''
The US power grid "is at a make-or-break moment'' and is being tested every day, Phillips said, citing "phenomenal load-growth from a domestic manufacturing boom, unprecedented construction of data centers fueling an AI revolution and ever-expanding electrification" of vehicles and buildings.
At the same time, aging infrastructure, shifting economics and a range of state and federal policies are leading traditional resources to retire, he said. "On top of all of this, extreme weather events have become the norm, and the electric grid is routinely being pushed to the brink.''
At the same time, construction of high-voltage power lines declined to a record low in 2022, "and much of that construction was simply Band-Aid fixes, rather than building a visionary grid of the future,'' Phillips said.
Many power companies and Republican-led states don't want to spend money on new transmission lines or upgrades for renewable energy, creating conflicts with Democratic states that have ambitious clean-energy goals.
Christie, the lone Republican on the three-member panel, said the rule "utterly fails to protect consumers" and ensure reliable, low-priced power for American homes and businesses.
"Instead, this rule is a pretext to enact a sweeping policy agenda that Congress never passed," he said. The rule will likely result in "a massive transfer of wealth from consumers to for-profit special interests," primarily wind and solar operators, he said.
The rule is intended to streamline how power lines are sited and how costs are shared between states. It could accelerate construction of new transmission lines for wind, solar and other renewable power and add huge amounts of clean energy to the grid. Biden has set a goal of a carbon-free power sector by 2035, and net-zero carbon emissions economy-wide by 2050.
To meet those targets, the US needs to more than double current regional transmission capacity and increase by five-fold the transmission lines between regions, according to an energy department study last year.
Under current rules, a large queue of utility-scale renewables cannot be connected to the grid because of a lack of available transmission capacity. The rule updates the agency's planning process and seeks to determine how costs will be divided when transmission crosses state lines and goes through multiple operators of regional power grids.
White House climate adviser Ali Zaidi said the FERC rule adds momentum to what he called the "historic progress" led by Biden on clean energy. The new rule "will improve regional transmission planning, break down barriers to grid buildout and support the delivery of more affordable and reliable power," Zaidi said,
The new rule "is as common-sense as it is historic,'' Clements said, adding that it calls for more advanced planning and consideration of reliability and affordability of new power sources and fosters cooperation with states.
"Whether you're planning a family vacation or the nation's electricity system, planning early, taking a clear-eyed view of the options and making smart investment decisions will result in more affordable and reliable outcomes,'' she said.
Christie challenged the agency action.
Whether the policies promoted in the final rule "can be described as green, purple, red or blue is irrelevant,'' Christie said. "The point is that FERC as an independent agency has no business promoting the policies of any one party or presidential administration, especially when the effort to do so goes far beyond FERC's legal authority.''
Clements responded by calling the rule "straight down the middle'' as a legal matter.
Democrats and clean-energy advocates hailed the new rule as a way to bring clean and cost-effective electricity onto the grid.
"Building more multi-state transmission lines unclogs the traffic jams on America's electricity superhighways and unlocks our ability to keep up with our growing energy needs,'' said Heather O'Neill, president and CEO of Advanced Energy United, which represents renewable providers.
Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer, senator from New York, said the rule will build on clean-energy incentives in the landmark climate law approved by Democrats in 2022.
The law, known as the Inflation Reduction Act, has been "a huge success,'' Schumer said Monday, "but much of that success would be lost without the ability to bring power from places that generate renewable energy to communities all across the country.'' FERC's actions "will mean more low-cost, reliable clean energy for the places that need it most,'' he said.
#276
The investment is in line with the company's commitment to enhance the share of renewable power source in its operation, and to comply with regulatory requirements for being a captive user under electricity laws, a company statement said.

Clean Max Auriga Power LLP is a special purpose vehicle engaged in the business of production, supply and distribution of solar and wind or other renewable energy generation plant.
The company was incorporated in February 2019, and was formed for the purpose of setting up captive wind and solar, renewable power generation plants in Karnataka.
Kedar Upadhye, president & global CFO, Cipla said, "ESG is at the centre of focus at Cipla and with this acquisition we are progressing on the right track of being purposeful by embedding sustainability into our businesses."
Geena Malhotra, global chief technology officer who spearheads Cipla's ESG agenda said, "Sustainability is at the core of Cipla and while we have miles to go in this path that we have undertaken to achieve our ESG goals, we are gradually moving towards it through such acquisitions and partnerships."
#277
More than 100 CEOs and senior executives from the World Economic Forum's Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders, including Indian companies like Infosys and Mahindra Group, have signed an open letter calling on governments to increase investments in renewable energy and implement policies to reduce emissions in global supply chains. The Alliance, representing $4 trillion in revenues and 12 million employees, is the world's largest CEO-led community committed to net zero emissions. They also urged fellow business leaders to take action to reduce carbon emissions.
More than 100 CEOs and senior executives from the World Economic Forum's Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders, including a few from India, on Tuesday signed an open letter ahead of the UN climate conference (Cop28), calling upon governments to scale up investments in renewable energy and implement policies that will help reduce emissions across global supply chain.
They also called upon fellow business leaders from the public and private sectors to accelerate net-zero actions to reduce carbon emissions for the benefit of society, public health and the global economy through setting science-based targets, publicly disclosing emissions and driving near-term emissions reductions.
The Alliance, representing $4 trillion in revenues and 12 million employees, is the world's largest CEO-led community committed to net zero emissions. The Alliance companies equate to the second largest country in the world with a combined emission footprint of 5.2Gt, accounting for 14% of global emissions - equal to the annual emissions of the US.
CEOs of Indian companies in the list of signatories include Infosys, Dalmia Cement, ReNew Power, Mahindra Group, Wipro and Indorama Ventures. Global biggies include Microsoft, Nestle, Unilever, Bloomberg, Bayer AG, PwC, Dell Technologies, Deloitte and Ericsson among others.
Calling upon world leaders to scale up investment in renewable energy and power networks, and streamline permitting and regulatory processes, the Alliance in the open letter flagged that while global investment in renewable energy reached a record $0.5 trillion in 2022, this is still less than a third of the annual investment needed towards 2030.
They also asked the governments to lead by example by adopting low-emission public procurement practices, noting that public procurement is a significant share of GDP. Citing its share of 14% in the EU alone, they said if 14% of an economy adopts low-emitting procurement practices, this will send a strong market signal to suppliers to improve their products and services and can facilitate the uptake of breakthrough solutions.
The Alliance also recognized the importance of strengthening and streamlining reporting standards and acknowledged their positive impact on climate action, and called on all standard-setters and regulators to continue to harmonize reporting requirements and ensure interoperability and reciprocity.
"The scale of decarbonization needed by 2030 is insurmountable unless we urgently work together to bend the emissions curve," said Borge Brende, president, World Economic Forum.
Citing the latest IPCC report that has confirmed that the world is on course to breach the critical barrier of 1.5 degree C warming within the next two decades, the Forum said, "Limiting the average global temperature increase to 1.5 degree C would require 50% emissions reductions by 2030 - amounting to annual emission reductions greater than what was achieved during the Covid-19 pandemic."
"The pathway to these emissions reductions will be paved with a complex mix of the right policies, technologies and infrastructure - which is why public-private collaboration has never been more important. This open letter sends a powerful message to world leaders at COP28 to introduce bold and transformative policies that will help the private sector do its part to achieve the 50% emissions reductions that we need by 2030," said Brende.
#278
Telangana's deputy chief minister Bhatti Vikramarka announced a goal to add 40,000 MW of renewable energy by 2035 during the Global Renewable Energy Investors Meet. Highlighting the state's solar and wind potential, he mentioned an upcoming energy policy and initiatives like 'Future City' and Regional Ring Road aimed at boosting sustainable growth.
Deputy chief minister Bhatti Vikramarka on Monday said that Telangana has an ambitious plan of adding 40,000 MW of additional renewable energy by 2035.
Addressing the fourth edition of Global Renewable Energy Investors Meet and Expo (RE-INVEST 2024) in Gandhinagar, Bhatti said: "The ambitious target to add 40,000 MW renewable energy by 2035 is not just a number, but a call for action.

With over 300 days of sunshine, Telangana has a solar potential of approximately 26.4 GW. As one of the top windy states in India, it has a wind potential of approximately 54 GW at 150 metres".
Bhatti, who is also the energy minister, emphasised that renewable energy is going to be a focus for Telangana. "We are coming out with a new energy policy in the span of 15-20 days," the deputy CM said Bhatti said that state has two major hydro projects with pump operations in Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar. There is further potential to undertake pumped storage projects (PSP), he said.
"Other renewable energy potential includes green hydrogen, geothermal, mini-hydel etc. Telangana is developing a comprehensive renewable energy policy to ensure sustainable, reliable and affordable power, promote RE projects and attract private investments," he said. Speaking about other initiatives he said 'Future City' centred around sustainable technologies, Regional Ring Road (RRR) to connect key industrial corridors, and the Musi riverfront development is expected to drive the energy growth further.
The deputy chief CM noted that Telangana's abundant resources, its skilled workforce, and pro-business initiatives such as TS-iPASS offer compelling opportunities for companies.
"The state of Telangana invites all stakeholders - govt representatives, private investors, and innovators - to join us in this mission. Let us power the future with renewable energy, for the nation and planet," he said.
#279
Real estate developer House of Hiranandani has launched the #TomorrowMatters campaign, a five-year initiative to address the global climate crisis. The campaign, responding to IPCC guidelines, aims to limit global warming to 1.5°C and encompasses several targeted environmental goals.
The campaign includes 'Grow Green,' which plans to plant 25,000 trees over five years to combat deforestation. 'Waste Wise' focuses on managing plastic waste by recycling 18,000 kg of plastic and converting 3.4 million kg of wet waste into organic manure. 'Eco-Enlighten' aims to educate 100,000 people on sustainable living practices. 'Energy Smart' is set to generate 70 million kWh of renewable energy through solar panels and provide 100% EV charging facilities in its projects.
These efforts build on previous initiatives such as 'Rhyme for Earth' and major environmental events organized by House of Hiranandani.
Prashin Jhobalia, vice president of marketing strategy at House of Hiranandani, stressed the importance of both global and local actions in combating climate change and expressed confidence in the campaign's ability to drive significant environmental and community impact by commenting, "Climate change is a vast issue in which global interventions are as important as local and community-led initiatives. We understand that climate change can cause irreversible damage to our surroundings, and it is upon us to act now and protect the environment for future generations. Sustainability and responsibility go hand in hand. Tomorrow Matters is one of our significant steps towards the environment and the community. We aspire to bring about a visible change in our local environment by working in a collaborative manner towards each of the four pillars of the campaign. The House of Hiranandani family comprises over 25,000 families and over 1,000 employees. We are confident of garnering their support to protect the environment for our next generation."
#280
The world added 50 per cent more renewable energy capacity in 2023 over the year before, the International Energy Agency said Thursday, predicting booming growth in the next five years.
The United Nations-led COP28 summit concluded in Dubai last month with nearly 200 nations agreeing to a first-ever call for the world to transition away from fossil fuels.
"The amount of renewable energy capacity added to energy systems around the world grew by 50 percent in 2023, reaching almost 510 gigawatts, with solar PV accounting for three-quarters of additions worldwide," the energy watchdog said in a statement.
It said the largest growth took place in China, which commissioned as much solar PV in 2023 as the entire world did in 2022, while China's wind power additions rose by 66 percent year-on-year.
"The increases in renewable energy capacity in Europe, the United States and Brazil also hit all-time highs," said the report on the sector.
IEA chief Fatih Birol said the report showed that "under current policies and market conditions, global renewable capacity is already on course to increase by two-and-a-half times by 2030".
"It's not enough yet to reach the COP28 goal of tripling renewables, but we're moving closer -- and governments have the tools needed to close the gap," he added.
Birol said onshore wind and solar PV were cheaper now than new fossil fuel plants as well as existing fossil fuel plants in most countries.
"The most important challenge for the international community is rapidly scaling up financing and deployment of renewables in most emerging and developing economies," he said.
"Success in meeting the tripling goal will hinge on this," Birol added.
#281
Punjab's power generation capacity from upcoming projects of renewable energy sources is projected to increase by 5,061.75 MW over the next five years.
This includes 4,300 MW from solar projects, 330.75 MW from hybrid, biomass and mini-hydel projects and 431 MW from hydel projects.

Replying to a question raised by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP from Punjab Vikramjit Singh Sahney, Union minister of state for power Shripad Naik told the Rajya Sabha on Friday "these projects are at various stages of implementation".
In addition, solar projects of 1,531 MW and of 484 MW under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Utthaan Mahabhiyan (PM-KUSUM) are at tendering stage.
In addition, 44.6 MW of rooftop solar power projects are also at tendering or bidding stage. Launched in 2019, PM-KUSUM scheme is aimed at ensuring energy security for farmers in the country, along with honouring India's commitment to increase the share of installed capacity of electric power from non-fossil-fuel sources to 40% by 2030 as part of Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs).
As on June 30 this year, the installed capacity of power projects located in Punjab is 8,877.58 MW, the minister said.
Among these, power projects with a capacity of 155.3 MW are being managed by the central sector organisations and 3,368.8 MW by the state sector organisations.
Power generation from govt managed thermal power generation plants in Punjab was recorded at 11,057.82 million units in 2023-24 and 2,291.82 million units in 2024-25 up to May end.
Similarly, power generated from govt managed renewable energy sources during this period was 5,163.67 million units and 732.82 million units, respectively. Thus the share of renewable energy sources in 2023-24 from govt managed projects was over 31.83% in Punjab.
How to Harness the Power of Gemstones for Positive Energy
The article discussed how gemstones, formed over billions of years, are believed to hold energies and vibrations that influence lives. People wear these stones for astrological alignment, chakra balancing, intention setting, protection, emotional support, and spiritual connection. The belief in their unique properties and historical significance makes gemstones valuable tools for personal growth and well-being.
Country's private sector lagging in renewable energy goals: CRH Report
Climate Risk Horizons reported that India's leading private companies lagged in meeting renewable energy and decarbonisation targets. The industrial sector, a major energy consumer, saw only 5% of electricity from renewables. Firms across various sectors, despite ambitious commitments, showed a gap in action. Strengthening renewable purchase obligations is crucial for progress.
UP govt project to improve women workforce numbers
The Uttar Pradesh government collaborated with the Udaiti Foundation to enhance women's economic empowerment. By monitoring female participation in government schemes, they aim to close gender gaps and improve workforce inclusion. A new WEE Index will assess women's involvement in district-level programs. Pilot projects will connect women to private sector job opportunities through ITIs and polytechnics.
#282
Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel introduced the 'Mission 100 GW of renewable energy in Gujarat' at the RE-INVEST 2024 event. This initiative targets installing 100 GW of renewable energy by 2030, supporting India's national goals. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the event, which includes significant international and domestic participation.
Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel on Tuesday launched the 'Mission 100 GW of renewable energy in Gujarat' during the second day of 4th Global Renewable Energy Investor's Meet (RE-INVEST) 2024.
The mission aims to install 100 GW of renewable energy by 2030 in Gujarat and will help in achieving the renewable energy targets of India.
The mission launched on the sidelines of RE-INVEST 2024 which is hosted by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) in Gandhinagar district of Gujarat.
CM Patel said "In Gujarat, we are formulating sector-specific policies along with weather and technology. Gujarat's ... Energy Policy and Green Hydrogen Policy are excellent examples of this. The state government is also promoting emerging sectors like semiconductors and fintech. Gujarat is the only state in the country where four semiconductor plants are going to be established, which is also very significant for the future of the energy sector".
As of April 2024, the state had 27.8 GW of the total installed renewable energy capacity, comprising around 11.7 GW of wind power (the highest in the country), 13.8 GW of solar power, 1,990 MW of large hydro and a small capacity of biomass (112.5 MW) and small-hydropower (91.64 MW).
Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the event RE-INVEST 2024 on Monday. The central theme of RE-INVEST 2024 is Mission 500 GW, which highlights India's strategic goal to expand its renewable energy capacity significantly by 2030.
As the 4th largest country globally in installed renewable energy capacity, India aims to further consolidate its leadership in the global energy transition.
Patel also highlighted that the vision of building a developed India by 2047, on the 100th anniversary of independence, is the commitment of Prime Minister Modi. Along with the production of clean and green energy, environmental protection is also essential. Therefore, PM Modi has pledged to lead India towards achieving net zero by 2070.
Key international partners for this year's event include Australia, Denmark, Germany, and Norway. Additionally, Indian states such as Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh also participating.
High-level delegations from the US, UK, Belgium, the European Union, Oman, UAE, Singapore, and Hong Kong also attended, with some delegations led by ministers from Germany and Denmark.
#283
India and China abstained from a pledge taken by 118 nations at UN climate summit (COP28) to increase global renewable energy capacity and energy efficiency by 2030. India, focused on economic growth and poverty reduction, maintains the leeway to use coal until 2030. India remains committed to increasing its non-fossil power capacity, but cannot make commitments that hinder development. India's stand can be negotiated later, as it is already part of the G20 New Delhi Leaders' Declaration.
India and China, two large economies and among the two top coal consumers, on Saturday stayed away from a pledge taken by 118 nations on the sidelines of annual UN climate summit (COP28) to works towards trebling the global renewable energy generation capacity to at least 11,000 GW and doubling the average annual rate of energy efficiency by 2030.
The abstention was in keeping with the stance of India which, despite having made rapid strides in boosting its non-fossil fuel energy generation capacity including solar, wind and hydel, has been loath to bind itself to commitments on massively cutting its reliance on coal-fired power plants- the mainstay of its generating electricity, at a time when demand is rapidly rising.
It has maintained that it would not be "pressured" into reducing the use of coal as it does not want to compromise on the availability of power to fuel its economic growth, and has kept the leeway for continued use of coal at least until 2030 even in the G-20 Declaration which prioritised de-addiction to coal. The stand here put it at odds with the emerging consensus for moving away from fossil fuel and in the company of China well as oil-producers Saudi Arabia, Russia and Iran.
However, sources said while India remains committed to substantially increase its non-fossil power capacity by 2030, in line with the climate action pledge under the Paris Agreement, it could not be party to any commitment which could hurt its priority to lift millions out of poverty by boosting development.
They also said that the principled stand should not be confused with rigidity as India can be part of the deal later, after negotiating its terms, as the agreement has a clear reference to the circumstances in individual countries and their ability to negotiate. "After all, it has been done outside the COP28 negotiation process. It just reflects the intent of global efforts and there has been no question mark on India's intent. India is already on board as part of the signatory of the G20 New Delhi Leaders' Declaration," said an observer.
At the G20 leaders' summit in Delhi, where a unanimous communique had been issued, the world's richest nations, including those who did not join on Saturday, had agreed to "pursue and encourage efforts to triple renewable energy capacity globally through existing targets and policies, as well as demonstrate similar ambition with respect to other zero and low-emission technologies, including abatement and removal technologies, in line with national circumstances by 2030".
#284
Australia touted plans to become a "renewable energy superpower" in an annual budget Tuesday, but the government's books also laid bare the depth of the economy's dependence on mining and fossil fuels.
Treasurer Jim Chalmers said the country was on track to bank a budget surplus of US$6 billion (Aus$9 billion) this year, a windfall propped-up in part by surging prices for iron ore and coal.
While heavily-polluting commodities were projected to fuel Australia's economy for years to come, Chalmers said the mining giant could no longer ignore the clamour for clean energy.
"We know the global energy transformation represents a golden opportunity for Australia," Chalmers said in his budget speech.
"If we hang back, the chance for a new generation of jobs and prosperity will pass us by. This budget invests in our renewable energy superpower ambitions."
At the centre of the budget was the fledgling "Made in Australia" program, which aims to catalyse homegrown clean energy and advanced manufacturing industries.
Modelled on the Inflation Reduction Act in the United States, it will pour US$15 billion into solar panel manufacturing, low-carbon fuels, tax breaks for critical minerals, and other priority areas.
- Dream to reality? -
Blessed with abundant sunshine, windswept coastlines, and teeming deposits of rare metals and minerals, Australia's potential as a renewables superpower has been talked up for years.
But these dreams have invariably come to nothing as policy makers grapple with the country's long reliance on iron ore, thermal coal, and natural gas -- which remain among its most lucrative exports.
Iron ore alone accounted for 18 percent of Australia's exports last year, according to budget papers.
"But those massive economic windfalls from mining and coal will soon start to drop off as economies decarbonise," energy analyst Tim Buckley told AFP.
"With this plan in the works, and if we make the right choices, that renewables dream could become a reality within the next decade."
Buckley said the push for local manufacturing could also limit Australia's exposure to external economic shocks.
"We can accept that China has cornered the market in an area like solar panels, and resolve to just buy from them forever," he said.
"Or we can build some domestic capacity as a kind of energy security policy."
Many climate activists already question whether Australia is capable of phasing out fossil fuels, or is simply paying lip service to the idea.
Just last week the Australian government made clear its intent to continue relying on natural gas -- a fossil fuel -- as a key source of energy over the next 30 years.
- Military overhaul -
Australia will spend big as it embarks on its biggest military overhaul in a generation, a raft of investments largely designed to keep a rising China at bay.
First and foremost is a 30-year plan for Australia to manufacture its own nuclear-powered submarines, part of the tripartite Aukuspact between Washington, London and Canberra.
Early trickles of Aukusfunding, outlined in the budget, will help Australia recruit and train the 20,000-strong workforce needed to build a nuclear industry from scratch.
Meanwhile, the army will be re-tooled with an arsenal of missiles and long-range strike weapons, while six Hunter class frigates and three Hobart class destroyers will bolster an ageing naval fleet.
Australia has also earmarked major upgrades to key military bases on its northern coast, the first line of defence if flashpoints in the Taiwan Strait or South China Sea one day spiral out of control.
This military muscle will be complemented by a renewed diplomatic push into the South Pacific, where China has long been eager to build its influence.
Australia will fund land reclamation projects in climate-threatened countries, sink undersea cables to connect isolated islands, and help finance a raft of other infrastructure projects.
While Chalmers hailed Australia's first back-to-back budget surplus in almost two decades, a deficit of US$19 billion (Aus$28.3 billion) looms in the government's accounts next year.
Budget documents did however paint a rosier-than-expected picture for inflation, which could return to the government's target range sooner than expected later this year.
#285
India's commitment to increase non-fossil power capacity by 2030, in line with the Paris Agreement, is balanced with its priority to lift millions out of poverty. India can join the deal later, negotiating its terms. India is already part of the G20 New Delhi Leaders' Declaration. The G20 Leaders' Summit agreed to triple renewable energy capacity and pursue energy efficiency improvements. Despite increasing renewable energy capacity, coal-fired plants still account for a significant share of India's installed generation capacity.
The stand here put it at odds with the emerging consensus for moving away from fossil fuels and in the company of China as well as oil-producers Saudi Arabia, Russia and Iran.
Sources said while India remains committed to substantially increase its non-fossil power capacity by 2030, in line with the climate action pledge under the Paris Agreement, it could not be party to any commitment that could hurt its priority to lift millions out of poverty by boosting development.

Thy also said that the principled stand should not be confused with rigidity as India can be part of the deal later, after negotiating its terms, as the agreement has a clear reference to the circumstances in individual countries and their ability to negotiate.
"It has been done outside the COP negotiation process. It just reflects the intent of global efforts and there has been no question mark on India's intent. After all, India is already on board as part of the signatory of the G20 New Delhi Leaders' Declaration," said an observer.
At the G20 Leaders' Summit in Delhi, where a unanimous communique had been issued, the world's richest nations, including some of those which did not join on Saturday, had agreed to "pursue and encourage efforts to triple renewable energy capacity globally through existing targets and policies, as well as demonstrate similar ambition with respect to other zero and low-emission technologies, including abatement and removal technologies, in line with national circumstances by 2030". They also noted the 'Voluntary Action Plan for Promoting Renewable Energy to Accelerate Universal Energy Access'.

According to data on the power ministry website, at the end of May, coal-fired plants accounted for over 49% of the installed generation capacity of almost 4.2 lakh gigawatt.
The share of fossil fuel, which also includes gas, lignite and diesel, was pegged at close to 57%. This is despite the government significantly ramping up renewable energy capacity to over 1.2 GW, or around 30% of the installed capacity.
Last year, under its updated nationally determined contribution (NDC) - climate action plan - India had committed to "achieve about 50% cumulative electric power installed capacity from non-fossil fuel-based energy resources by 2030, with the help of transfer of technology and low-cost international finance, including from Green Climate Fund (GCF)". Accordingly, India aims to add 500 GW of non-fossil fuel-based capacity by 2030.
According to the pledge, made under the leadership of CO President Sultan Al Jaber on Saturday, the countries besides working to treble the renewable energy capacity also committed to "work together in order to collectively double the global average annual rate of energy efficiency improvements from around 2% to more than 4% every year until 2030".
The pledge looks to drive transformational change through effective policymaking, planning, and major investment decisions, underlining that rapidly expanding renewables is one of the single greatest tools to reduce emissions and the energy efficiency is considered the "first fuel of the transition" and can significantly contribute to reducing energy consumption.
The US also led a controversial call by over 20 countries, including the UK, Japan, Ghana and several of European nations, to treble nuclear energy capacity by 2050 to achieve carbon neutrality.
#286
NTPC shares soared to an all-time high of Rs 424 on BSE following NTPC Green Energy's filing for a Rs 10,000 crore IPO. The raised funds will be used to repay loans and support business purposes. The IPO includes only fresh equity shares without any Offer For Sale component.
NTPC shares settled at an all time high at Rs 424 on BSE, surging over 2 per cent on Thursday, after its renewable energy arm, NTPC Green Energy, filed preliminary papers with Sebi to raise Rs 10,000 crore through an Initial Public Offering (IPO). The stock climbed 4.34 per cent to Rs 431.85 during the trading session.
Additionally, the company's market valuation increased Rs 9,842.12 crore to Rs 4,11,138.64 crore.
The IPO consists entirely of a fresh issuance of equity shares with no Offer For Sale (OFS) component, according to the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP).
NTPC Green Energy said the Rs 7,500 crore raised from the IPO would be used to repay or prepay outstanding loans for some or all of the subsidiary NTPC Renewable Energy Ltd (NREL) and a part of it would be utilized for business purposes.
NTPC Green Energy is a 'Maharatna' central public sector enterprise with a strong presence in the renewable energy sector, including solar and wind power assets.
The lead book-running managers of the issue are IDBI Capital Markets & Securities, HDFC Bank, IIFL Securities, and Nuvama Wealth Management.
#287
Reliance Industries will by 2030 create or enable capacity to generate at least 100 gigawatts of electricity from renewable sources, which can be converted into carbon-free green hydrogen, its chairman Mukesh Ambani said on Friday as he outlined a 1-1-1 vision to bring down the cost of hydrogen to under $1 per 1 kg in 1 decade.
Reliance Industries will by 2030 create or enable capacity to generate at least 100 gigawatts of electricity from renewable sources, which can be converted into carbon-free green hydrogen, its chairman Mukesh Ambani said on Friday as he outlined a 1-1-1 vision to bring down the cost of hydrogen to under $1 per 1 kg in 1 decade.
The focus on generating electricity from renewable sources of energy such as solar and wind -will help cut carbon emissions in the world's third-largest greenhouse gas emitter.
The same electricity, when converted into green hydrogen, can replace petrol and diesel in automobiles and other fuels in the industry, helping cut down on the use of fossil fuels, carbon emissions and reduce import dependence.
Speaking at the International Climate Summit 2021, India's richest man said Reliance will pursue the target of bringing down the cost of making green hydrogen to under $2 per kg initially and ultimately to bring it down to under $1 per kg in a decade.
Green hydrogen produced with renewable resources costs between about $3 per kg and $6.55 a kg.
With abundant sunlight, India can generate over 1,000 GW of solar energy on just 0.5 per cent of landmass, he said, adding that the nation has already achieved the 100 GW of installed renewable energy capacity and the target of 175 GW by December 2022 is now well within sight.
Further, the nation is targeting 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030.

"Green Hydrogen is zero-carbon energy. It is the best and cleanest source of energy, which can play a fundamental role in the world's decarbonisation plans," he said.
Hydrogen is the latest buzz for meeting the world's energy needs. Being the cleanest form of energy, it can be produced from a variety of resources, such as natural gas, biomass, and renewable power like solar and wind. It can be used in cars, in houses, for portable power and in many more applications.
Green hydrogen is derived from water electrolysis using renewable energy such as solar or wind.
Ambani said hydrogen has a high gravimetric energy density and can be reconverted into electricity and heat with zero emissions.
"Although the costs of hydrogen from electrolysis today are high, they are expected to fall significantly in the coming years. New technologies are emerging for hydrogen storage and transportation, which will dramatically reduce the cost of distribution," he said.
He said efforts are on globally to make green hydrogen most affordable fuel option by bringing down its cost to initially under $2 per kg.
"Let me assure you all that Reliance will aggressively pursue this target and achieve it well before the turn of this decade," he said. "I am sure that India can set even more aggressive target of achieving under $1 per kg within a decade."
This, according to him, will make India the first country globally to achieve $1 per 1 kilogram in 1 decade - the 1-1-1 target for green hydrogen.
Calling climate change the most daunting challenge facing human civilisation that can threaten the very existence of life on the planet if uncontrolled, Ambani said the only option is rapid transition to a new era of green, clean and renewable energy.
India, he said, is determined to achieve "azadi" (independence) from dependence on fossil energy and become "aatmanirbhar" (self-reliant) in new and renewal energy.
India spends $160 billion every year on import oil and gas to meet its energy needs. And its energy needs will only grow.
"Although India's per capita energy consumption and emissions are less than half the global average, we are the world's third-largest emitter of greenhouse gases," he said. "Because climate change is a global problem, the clean energy transition calls for the widest possible global cooperation in technology development, investments and fair market access."
Outlining the oil-to-telecom conglomerate's clean energy plans, he said Reliance has already started developing the green energy complex in Jamnagar in Gujarat with an investment of Rs 75,000 crore.
"Last year, I had announced our ambitious commitment to make Reliance a net carbon zero company by 2035. This year, I presented our strategy and roadmap for the new energy business, which will be the next big 'value creation engine' for Reliance and India.
"We have started developing the Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy Giga Complex over 5,000 acres in Jamnagar. It will be amongst the largest integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities in the world. This complex will have four Giga Factories, which cover the entire spectrum of renewable energy," he said.
The four Giga factories will include an integrated solar photovoltaic module factory, an advanced energy storage battery factory, an electrolyser factory for the production of Green Hydrogen, and a fuel cell factory for converting hydrogen into motive and stationary power.
"Over the next three years, we will invest Rs 75,000 crore in these initiatives. Reliance will thus create and offer a fully integrated, end-to-end renewables energy ecosystem to India and Indians," he said.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set the goal to reach 450 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030. Out of this, Reliance will establish and enable at least 100 GW of solar energy by 2030, he stated.
This, he said, will create a pan-India network of kilowatt and megawatt-scale solar energy producers who can produce green hydrogen for local consumption.
#288
India and Maldives plan to set up a transmission interconnection for transfer of renewable power between the two countries.
The proposal was discussed during the meeting between Power and New and Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh and Maldives' Environment, Climate Change and Technology Minister Aminath Shauna in the national capital on Tuesday.
Singh appreciated the resolve of Maldives government to achieve net zero emission target by 2030, according to a power ministry statement.
During the meeting, both leaders proposed two Memoranda of Understanding -- on energy cooperation and on transmission interconnection under One Sun, One World, One Grid (OSOWOG).
To facilitate Maldives' energy transition programme, a transmission interconnection for renewable power transfer has been proposed, the statement said.
A draft agreement is being prepared for the MoU on transmission interconnection under which a technical team from India would visit Maldives to assess the technical feasibility of the project.
Subsequently, a Detailed Project Report (DPR) would be prepared jointly with Indian and Maldives agencies, including undersea cable route survey and network augmentation in Male, as per the statement.
#289
The Yogi government is gearing up to implement 125 projects worth over Rs 1 lakh crore in the renewable energy sector.
According to information from the department of additional energy sources, key players in the renewable energy sector, including Greenco, Tusco, BSEL and ACME Cleantech, are fully prepared to invest in Uttar Pradesh. "Four big renewable energy plants will be set up in Bundelkhand and Purvanchal.
The worth of these projects is over Rs 35,000 crore," officials concerned said. They added that Tusco will set up a 1000-megawatt floating solar power plant in Lalitpur with an investment of Rs 6,500 crores, while Bundelkhand Saur Urja Limited will establish a 1,200-megawatt solar power park in Jalaun, costing Rs 6,000 crores. Further, ACME Cleantech Solutions Private Limited will set up two off-Stream close loop pump storage projects with a capacity of 1250 megawatts in Prayagraj and Mirzapur, costing Rs 6,000 crores.
An official spokesperson said that the UP government was conscious of the environmental hazards associated with the traditional energy sources and was aware of the growing need to switch over to green energy. "Traditional energy sources are limited and their use poses a threat of environmental pollution through emissions. In this context, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is consistently making efforts to increase energy production based on new and renewable energy sources," the spokesperson said. He added that as a result of the efforts of the Yogi government large projects based on solar energy, biomass and small hydroelectric power are being set up in the state. "Work is already being done in the direction of grid-combined solar power generation and rooftop power generation in the state," he said.
Now, with the significant investments expected in this sector, not only is Uttar Pradesh becoming a hub for renewable energy, but there is also an increased possibility of creating employment on a large scale.
Himachal Pradesh CM asks officials to prepare complete outline of solar energy scheme
The Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh, Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, has instructed officials to develop guidelines for a solar energy scheme. The government plans to offer a 40% subsidy to young people in the state who install solar projects. The scheme aims to provide self-employment opportunities and contribute to the goal of making Himachal a green energy state by 2026. The government will also purchase electricity from units established under the scheme, providing a stable source of income. This initiative is expected to promote environmental protection, economic growth, and employment in the state.
India has 637GW of residential rooftop solar energy potential: Report
A new report by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) reveals that over 25 crore households in India have the potential to generate 637 gigawatts of solar energy on rooftops. Utilizing just one-third of this potential could meet the entire electricity demand of the residential sector. The report also highlights that rural areas have higher rooftop potential compared to urban areas. However, residential awareness and willingness to install rooftop solar systems remain low, with residents perceiving them as costly investments. The report emphasizes the need for affordable prices to accelerate the adoption of rooftop solar.
25cr homes can harvest 637GW rooftop solar energy: Report
A recent report by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) reveals that over 25 crore households in India have the potential to generate 637 gigawatts (GW) of solar energy on rooftops. Utilizing just one-third of this capacity can meet the entire electricity demand of the residential sector. Currently, India has only installed 11 GW of rooftop solar capacity, with a mere 2.7 GW in the residential sector. The report also highlights the concentration of residential rooftop potential in seven states and the need to address cost concerns and increase awareness among consumers. Solarizing households can also bring economic benefits to power distribution companies.
#290
Adani Electricity, which caters to 31 lakh power consumers in suburbs, has announced that it has commenced the process to procure 1,500 MW power of which a minimum 51% will come from renewable energy sources.
This procurement will allow the company to meet future demand in Mumbai -- with demand growing at an average 4% annually, sources said.


A senior official from the company said : "Since Adani took over the Mumbai power distribution business in October 2018, it has increased share of renewable energy from a meagre 3% to 30%, with a further commitment to scale renewable energy supply to 60% by 2027.
"Apart from reducing every Mumbaikar's carbon footprint, renewable energy procurement will also allow Adani Electricity to provide tariff stability and visibility to consumers over a long-term horizon and allow us to serve Mumbai with the most competitive tariff," said an official.
With this new move, Mumbai will have the distinction to be one of the few cities in the world, which will source the majority of its electricity demand from renewable energy sources in near future, sources added.
Presently, the electricity demand in Mumbai is partly met through 1877 MW power generated in Mumbai region through thermal plants, sources said. The remaining power is catered from outside Mumbai through the current transmission network which allows import of power to MMR.
#291
Climate Risk Horizons' report 'Slow to Switch' revealed that India's leading private firms are slowly progressing toward the nation's renewable energy and decarbonisation goals. The analysis of 33 companies showed that only around 5% of their electricity consumption came from renewable sources, underscoring a significant gap between commitments and actions as of Financial Year 2023.
Climate think tank Climate Risk Horizons (CRH) in its latest report 'Slow to Switch' has found that India's leading private companies are dragging their feet when it comes to meeting the country's ambitious renewable energy (RE) and decarbonisation goals.
The industrial sector accounts for more than half of India's energy consumption, making corporate action essential to the government's decarbonisation efforts.
As per the report, released on Tuesday, Climate Risk Horizons scrutinised 33 companies across seven industries, five of which are large energy consumers (Cement, Steel, Aluminium, Textiles, and Fertilisers), the other two being Information Technology and Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG), on four dimensions-Reporting and Transparency, Sourcing, Intentions, and Practising.
The report uses publicly available data collected from companies' annual and sustainability reports to assess their decarbonisation efforts as of Financial Year 2023. The analysis reveals a massive gap between companies' renewable energy commitments and actions, showing that only around 5% of the annual electricity consumption of the assessed companies is sourced from renewables (solar and wind).
India has set ambitious targets for renewable energy (450 GW by 2030). As of January 2024, India had 45 GW of installed wind and 74 GW of solar capacity. Meeting India's 2030 targets will require an average annual capacity addition of roughly 50 GW.
While ambitious and far above current rates, this is by no means unachievable. However, meeting these targets will require leveraging the resources of all sectors and players in the energy space.
All but one of the companies analysed (ArcelorMittal/Nippon Steel) have reported their energy consumption from various sources. Several have made ambitious commitments as members of global renewable energy alliances, but almost none are on track to achieve their goals. Big steel companies are currently meeting a tiny fraction (less than 0.05% on average) of their energy from renewable sources.
Big textile companies have set targets in line with the Paris Agreement, but, on average, less than 3% of their energy consumption comes from renewable electricity.
Cement companies have all set targets to reduce emissions in line with the Paris Agreement, yet the share of renewable energy in their overall energy consumption was only 2.5%.
In the FMCG sector, some big companies stand out for their low RE utilisation, in contrast to Nestle and Hindustan Unilever, which fare the best in terms of translating renewable energy commitments into actions.
While the information technology industry emerges as the overall top performer, the fertiliser industry lag behind with the poorest score.
"Shifting to renewable energy is essential for energy security at the company level and for the Indian economy as a whole. While a few large companies have started to take steps in this direction, a lot more needs to be done, and a lot quicker, if India is to meet its decarbonisation targets," said Vishnu Teja, lead author of the report.
Large electricity consumers are bound to meet 30% of their overall electricity consumption from renewable sources, but on average only 5% of electricity consumed by the analysed companies is met from renewable electricity.
The report highlights the significant potential of the heavy industry sector to drive decarbonisation in the Indian electricity system. The companies analysed have an annual electricity consumption of over 169 BU (Billion Units), which is more than double the electricity consumption of some bigger states.
However, less than five percent of this consumption currently comes from renewable sources. Strengthening and enforcing renewable purchase obligations will support the development of renewable energy capacity and energy storage technologies, lowering costs and increasing energy security for industries and the economy.
"India Inc needs to step up and start investing for an energy secure future. The country's RE and decarbonisation targets will not be met without active support from large corporate players. With green energy open access regulations now in place, companies should be signing Power Purchase Agreements to ensure that 100% of their electricity comes from renewable energy by 2030," said Ashish Fernandes, Climate Risk Horizons CEO and co-author of the report.
#292
The state govt on Sunday said that power generation increased by 6,512 megawatts (MW) during the current year, and investments totalling Rs 43,450 crore to set up RE plants in the state were made. An official statement said that as of March 2023, Gujarat's power generation capacity was 45,912 MW, with 19,435 MW from RE. In 2024, the overall power generation capacity increased by 6,512 MW, with 6,036 MW coming from renewable sources. The state achieved a total installed electricity generation capacity of 52,424 MW, with over 50%, or 25,472 MW, coming from renewable sources, the statement said.Listing the achievements in the field as part of its 'Vikas Saptah' observance, the statement said that Re-Invest 2024, held in Gandhinagar last month, showcased Gujarat's strong leadership in RE. The govt said that the Modhera Solar Village, located in Mehsana district, receives electricity from a 6MW solar plant connected to a 15 MWh battery energy storage system, ensuring a 24-hour power supply even during outages. Over 1,300 solar rooftop systems were installed throughout Modhera, making the village energy-independent. Similarly, the state built one of India's largest solar parks - the 500MW Charanka Solar Park, which generates 749MW of electricity and hosts numerous small and large solar plants. 
#293
Terming climate change as an "existential challenge", Vice-President Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Wednesday that renewable energy is not optional but a compulsion, calling for efforts to make the planet habitable by tackling the ill-effects of climate change.Presiding over the valedictory session of Renewable Energy Investors Meet and Expo (RE-Invest 2024), which was held over the past three days in the state capital, Dhankhar said India's knowledge about climate change emanates from scriptures like the Vedas and Upanishads and the country has taken a lead in the area when the global scenario is marked by disturbance."Interest in RE is not optional, it is compulsion. We will have to take an interest in this because this concerns our existence. And therefore, RE-Invest 2024 has the potential to be a powerful catalyst for action, an action that is the need of the hour," Dhankhar told the gathering.Terming climate change an "existential challenge", Dhankhar said that the entire world has awakened to it as "we are fully alive (to the fact) that we don't have another planet to live".He added, "And therefore there is no option but to work round the clock to bring about a scenario so that we can contain the climate change menace, then engage in its restoration, and then make this planet habitable," he said.
Dhankhar said that India, with its civilizational depth of 5,000 years, has taken a lead in the fight against climate change. "Our knowledge about climate change emanates from our Vedas and Upanishads. And therefore, a change was initiated from this land," he added.To tackle climate change, there is a need to create an ecosystem with holistic involvement of all, he commented. "This country has become an epicentre to bring about harmony in the world ... India has given a clarion call ... All agencies in the globe need to converge to tackle and address the menace of climate change. And in this, every individual has a role to play," he said, adding that energy needs to be consumed in a sustainable manner."India is no longer a sleeping giant, a sleeping elephant. It is on the rise. And the rise is incremental and for the benefit of one and all," he said. Dhankhar observed that the development that India is witnessing is "soothing" and it is among the handful of countries with a focus on green hydrogen.The valedictory function of RE-Invest 2024 was attended by state governor Acharya Devvrat, CM Bhupendra Patel and Union ministers Pralhad Joshi and Bhupender Yadav, and others.Gandhinagar: Terming climate change as an "existential challenge", Vice-President Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Wednesday that renewable energy is not optional but a compulsion, calling for efforts to make the planet habitable by tackling the ill-effects of climate change.Presiding over the valedictory session of Renewable Energy Investors Meet and Expo (RE-Invest 2024), which was held over the past three days in the state capital, Dhankhar said India's knowledge about climate change emanates from scriptures like the Vedas and Upanishads and the country has taken a lead in the area when the global scenario is marked by disturbance."Interest in RE is not optional, it is compulsion. We will have to take an interest in this because this concerns our existence. And therefore, RE-Invest 2024 has the potential to be a powerful catalyst for action, an action that is the need of the hour," Dhankhar told the gathering.Terming climate change an "existential challenge", Dhankhar said that the entire world has awakened to it as "we are fully alive (to the fact) that we don't have another planet to live".He added, "And therefore there is no option but to work round the clock to bring about a scenario so that we can contain the climate change menace, then engage in its restoration, and then make this planet habitable," he said. Dhankhar said that India, with its civilizational depth of 5,000 years, has taken a lead in the fight against climate change. "Our knowledge about climate change emanates from our Vedas and Upanishads. And therefore, a change was initiated from this land," he added.To tackle climate change, there is a need to create an ecosystem with holistic involvement of all, he commented. "This country has become an epicentre to bring about harmony in the world ... India has given a clarion call ... All agencies in the globe need to converge to tackle and address the menace of climate change. And in this, every individual has a role to play," he said, adding that energy needs to be consumed in a sustainable manner."India is no longer a sleeping giant, a sleeping elephant. It is on the rise. And the rise is incremental and for the benefit of one and all," he said. Dhankhar observed that the development that India is witnessing is "soothing" and it is among the handful of countries with a focus on green hydrogen.The valedictory function of RE-Invest 2024 was attended by state governor Acharya Devvrat, CM Bhupendra Patel and Union ministers Pralhad Joshi and Bhupender Yadav, and others.
#294
Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday that India's new target of 500 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy by 2030, announced at the 26th session of the Conference of Parties (COP26) in Glasgow, is a "very significant" contribution to meeting the goals of the climate summit.
"The Prime Minister spoke at the summit of 500 GW of renewable energy by 2030. By all means, this is a very very significant contribution to the overall area of climate change and in meeting the goals of the summit, considering that India comprises one-sixth of humanity," Shringla said in a briefing about India's National Statement at the COP26 Summit in Glasgow.
Foreign Secretary also informed that PM Modi at COP 26 announced that by 2030, 50 per cent of India's energy needs would be met from renewable energy sources.
"In Paris, our nationally determined contribution said that 40 per cent of our installed electricity would come from non-fossil fuel energy sources. The PM today announced that by 2030, 50 per cent would be met with renewable energy. So that's a significant announcement again," he said.
The Prime Minister also stated that India will reduce its carbon emissions by 1 billion tonnes from now until 2030, Foreign Secretary said.
"Again one of the Nationally Determined Contribution announced in Paris was the emissions intensity of our economy would be reduced between 33 and 35 per cent by 2030, this is over 2005 levels. The Prime Minister today said that this would be reduced by 45 per cent. And for the first time, India has spoken about net-zero by 2070," he said.
Shringla said that Prime Minister Modi delivered "a seminal statement" at the COP and highlighted the range and depth of climate actions taken by India along with future goals that the country has set for itself.
"The highlight of the day was the Prime Minister's National Statement on COP26. You would all agree this is a seminal statement. This is a very significant contribution by India towards global action on the climate change agenda," Shringla said at a press briefing.
"It (speech by PM Modi) not only highlights the range and depth of climate actions taken by India but also future goals that India has set for herself," he added.
During his COP26 address on Monday, Prime Minister Modi announced five "amrit tatva" including the target to attain net-zero emissions by 2070. He stated that India is the only major economy that has worked and delivered on the Paris commitments both in letter and spirit.
The high-level segment of COP26 is titled the World Leaders' Summit (WLS) and is being attended by heads of state or government of more than 120 countries.
#295
India's renewable energy sector has the potential to employ around one million people by 2030, and most of the new jobs would be generated by small-scale renewable energy projects, according to a study.
India's renewable energy sector could potentially employ around one million people by 2030, which would be ten times more than the existing workforce of an estimated 1.1 lakh employed by the sector, according to an independent study released on Thursday by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) and Skill Council for Green Jobs (SCGJ).
The study "India's Expanding Clean Energy Workforce" highlighted that most of the new jobs would be generated by small-scale renewable energy projects such as rooftop solar and mini and micro-grid systems compared to utility or large-scale projects like solar parks.
The CEEW-NRDC-SCGJ analysis also highlighted the adverse impact of the pandemic on employment in the renewable energy sector. In comparison to 12,400 new workers employed in the sector in FY19, only 5,200 new workers were employed in FY20 and 6400 were employed in FY21, it said.
In FY21, a majority of the new workers were employed in the rooftop solar segment where annual capacity additions grew by nine per cent over FY20 and accounted for 1.4 GW capacity, it added.
The study further noted that India has successfully trained 78,000 people under the Suryamitra training program, between 2015 and 2017, to improve the availability of skilled workers for clean energy projects.
"The upcoming Union Budget must especially focus on scaling up rooftop solar, mini and micro grid systems, and domestic solar manufacturing to maximise the employment opportunities in the sector," Dr Arunabha Ghosh, CEO, CEEW said.
#296
Serentica Renewables announced plans to establish renewable energy projects with a combined capacity of 10 gigawatts (GW) in Andhra Pradesh.
With target of achieving 72 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030, the state is opening doors for industry leaders to contribute to its green vision.
Commenting on this initiative, Pratik Agarwal, chairman of Serentica Renewables, said that AP holds immense renewable energy potential, and their 10 GW commitment is a step toward unlocking it.
"This project will provide reliable, round-the-clock green power, supporting both regional growth and India's vision for a sustainable, energy-secure future," said Pratik.
Akshay Hiranandani, CEO of the renewable energy company, added that the 10 GW development builds on the company's track record of executing complex renewable projects.
"We are combining solar, wind, and storage technologies to develop round-the-clock projects that will ensure green power is available on a 24x7 basis," said Akshay.
#297

As we commemorate Earth Day, it is a poignant reminder of the dire need to address the pressing issue of climate change which is an ever-looming threat to the sole inhabitable planet that harbours life. It would not be an exaggeration to state that our planet is at a tipping point and in the face of such dreadful circumstances, meticulously crafted plans of action with immediate decisive measures are imperative to combat this global crisis. Development and application of ever-advancing technology which has proven to be the driving force behind human progress should now be put to the best use, that is to make our planet a better place to live.
As we commemorate Earth Day, it is a poignant reminder of the dire need to address the pressing issue of climate change which is an ever-looming threat to the sole inhabitable planet that harbours life. It would not be an exaggeration to state that our planet is at a tipping point and in the face of such dreadful circumstances, meticulously crafted plans of action with immediate decisive measures are imperative to combat this global crisis.
Development and application of ever-advancing technology which has proven to be the driving force behind human progress should now be put to the best use, that is to make our planet a better place to live. The power of innovation and technology cannot be overstated, it holds the key to overcoming the challenges posed by climate change. From renewable energy sources to smart grids, from carbon capture to electric vehicles (EVs) to sustainable agriculture, there is a plethora of innovative technologies that have the potential to pave the way toward a more sustainable future for our planet.
Picture a world where our roads are filled with EVs humming softly, emitting nothing but pure, clean air. Imagine streets free from toxic tailpipe emissions, where the air is crisp and clean, and our lungs are free from the choking grasp of pollution. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has unequivocally identified human activities, including transportation, as the main drivers of global warming. But EVs have the power to change that. Studies by the Union of Concerned Scientists show that EVs produce less than half the greenhouse gas emissions of traditional gasoline-powered vehicles, even when accounting for electricity generation. EVs produce zero tailpipe emissions, meaning they don't release harmful pollutants like carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides into our atmosphere. This has a direct and positive impact on our air quality, improving public health and reducing respiratory diseases. Our cities can become havens of fresh air, where children can play and breathe without fear of pollution. It's a future we owe to our planet and our communities.

Moreover, EVs can boost our energy security and reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. Unlike oil, which is a finite and geopolitically sensitive resource, electricity can be generated from diverse and renewable sources within our borders. This translates to enhanced energy security, reduced vulnerability to price volatility, and decreased reliance on foreign oil. It's a win-win for our environment, economies, and our national security.
Renewable energy: Sustainable Alternative
Renewable energy sources, such as solar, wind, and hydropower, have gained significant momentum in recent years. They provide a cleaner and more sustainable alternative to fossil fuels, which are the main source of greenhouse gas emissions. According to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IREA), renewable energy accounted for 72 percent of global electricity capacity additions in 2019. This remarkable growth demonstrates the increasing recognition of the crucial role of renewable energy in mitigating climate change.
Smart grids
In addition to renewable energy, smart grids have gained traction as a crucial tool in combating climate change. Smart grids are modern electricity networks that leverage advanced technologies to optimise electricity generation, distribution, and consumption. They enable better integration of renewable energy sources, enhance the energy efficiency and facilitate the use of energy storage technologies. Smart grids also empower consumers by providing them with real-time data on their energy usage, allowing them to make informed decisions about their energy consumption. By enabling a more efficient, resilient and flexible electricity system, smart grids are driving the transition to a more sustainable energy future.
Carbon capture
Carbon capture and utilisation (CCU) technologies are another innovative solution in the fight against climate change. CCU involves capturing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from industrial processes and utilising them to produce valuable products or store them permanently. This technology has the potential to significantly reduce CO2 emissions from industries such as cement, steel, and chemicals, which are major contributors to greenhouse gas emissions. CCU not only helps in reducing emissions but also provides economic opportunities by creating new markets for carbon-based products, such as building materials and fuels.
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable agriculture is also a vital area where technology can play a significant role in mitigating climate change. Agricultural practices, such as deforestation, intensive farming, and excessive use of fertilizers, contribute to greenhouse gas emissions and environmental degradation. However, innovative technologies such as precision farming, hydroponics, and vertical farming are revolutionizing agriculture by reducing water usage, optimizing resource utilization, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. These technologies are not only making agriculture more sustainable but also improving food security and nutrition for communities around the world.
It's imperative to recognize that these innovative technologies are not standalone solutions but rather interconnected pieces of a larger puzzle. By combining renewable energy, smart grids, carbon capture, and sustainable agriculture, we can create a synergistic effect that maximises their impact on climate change. For instance, renewable energy can power the production of hydrogen through electrolysis, which can then be utilized as a clean and sustainable fuel in various industries. Additionally, smart grids can optimize the integration of renewable energy and the utilization of hydrogen, enabling a more efficient and flexible energy system.
However, realizing the full potential of these technologies requires a collective effort from all stakeholders, including governments, businesses, and communities. Governments must create supportive policies, regulations, and incentives that promote the development and adoption of these technologies.
#298
Principal Secretary, energy department-cum-CMD Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited (BSPHCL), Sanjeev Hans on Saturday said Bihar has an investment potential of Rs 23,886 crore in the renewable energy sector.
Speaking at the Bihar Solar Show at Bidyut Bhawan here, Hans said, "Bihar, having a consumer base of 190 lakh, offers sunshine opportunities to investors in the renewable energy sector, which is sized at Rs 23,886 crore."
Giving the break-up of total investment size, Hans said, "The state offers Rs 10,558 crore investment in solar modules; Rs 4,040 crore in Inverter; Rs 2,313 in electric cables; Rs 1,200 Lithium-Ion Battery and Rs 5,775 crore for essential accessories."
Detailing the investment opportunities in the government sector, he said, "Under the visionary leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar, several projects have been sanctioned which include Feeder-level solarisation under Krishi Road Map-4, with an outlay of Rs 4,000 crore; generation of 1,000 MW rooftop solar energy on government buildings in next two to three years valued at Rs 4,600 crore; Rs 3,000 crore for installation of one lakh solar street lights in next two years; approved expenditure for solar power plants along the canal with total capacity of 250 MW with an outlay of Rs 1,588 crore."
Hans assured the investors that the notification of the state's second renewable energy policy is in the pipeline which will further open the avenues for investment related to Renewable Energy.
#299

The Bihar Solar Show was organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in association with the state's energy department and Bihar Renewable Energy Development Agency (BREDA). The meet saw the convergence of senior state government officials, solar energy investors, industry experts and other stakeholders.
While welcoming the participants, energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said the state is bifurcated by the river Ganga into north and south parts. "While North Bihar has abundant water resources, South Bihar has huge scope for solar energy," he said. "Our enabling policies and single-window clearance system encourage the investors to invest in Bihar," he added.
Additional Chief Secretary (Industries) Sandeep Poundrik said Bihar is witnessing a huge transformation with third highest GSDP growth rate during the fiscal 2021-2022. "As against the national growth of 8.75%, Bihar is recording growth of 10.9%," he said.
Poundrik further pointed out that all three basic requirements for setting up the industries - land, water and electricity - are available in plenty in Bihar. "The state has 3,000 acres of industrial land bank; 24 lakh square feet of plug and play facility on low monthly rental; 75 Industrial Areas with good water and power supply and 1,176 functional units on BIADA land," he said, while inviting the investors to put their money in Bihar. He asked the investors to make Bihar a manufacturing hub for solar industry inputs that has a promising future.
Addressing the solar show, Director, BREDA-cum-Managing Director, South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (SBPDCL), Mahendra Kumar said, "Bihar is creating an enabling ecosystem for investments in renewable energy. Our policies are investor-friendly and also, we are exploring new destinations where solar installations could be made. The Bihar government has set a target to have renewable energy account for 40% of the total power consumption by 2030-31," he said.
#300
With growing shortage of conventional electricity and prolonged outages, the Haryana government aims to increase the power supply from renewable sources by nearly two-fold in the next two years, from the existing 2207 MW to 4264 MW. The power department is expected to add an additional capacity of 1176 MW in 2022-23 and another 881 MW in 2023-24, officials have said.
Of the existing 2207 MW power supply from renewable sources, around 348 MW comes from rooftop solar plants.
"By the end of financial year 2023-24, the supply of power from renewable sources is expected to reach 4264 MW," a senior official of the power department told TOI. In July 2022, the peak power demand of Haryana was around 12,300 MW.
This demand is expected to cross 13,000 or 14,000 MW by 2024.
Despite taking several initiatives for the promotion of renewable energy in the state, the pandemic put a break on the efforts of the Haryana Power Purchase Centre - it faced constraints in meeting renewable power purchase obligation (RPO) targets. "The shortfall in RPO is primarily on account of the Covid outbreak which has caused substantial delays in the commissioning of various projects," said the official.
Haryana was among the first few states to recognise the importance of green power and the need to decarbonise the state and also the fiscal constraints of discoms. "Haryana has no wind potential, little to no hydro potential except micro-canal based, and solar irradiation is also comparatively on the lower side. What remains is biomass-based renewable energy projects and inter-state contracts for renewable energy power," the official added.
It may be mentioned here that Gurgaon's mini-secretariat completely shifted to solar power in May this year, with the installation of a 100kV solar power plant on its rooftop to provide electricity to the entire building. The move, according to officials, aims to cut their power costs by nearly 15% and carbon dioxide emissions.
#301

Amazon on Wednesday kicked off its first utility-scale renewable energy project in India - three solar farms located in the state of Rajasthan.
Amazon on Wednesday kicked off its first utility-scale renewable energy project in India - three solar farms located in the state of Rajasthan. These include a 210 MW project to be developed by ReNew Power, a 100MW project to be developed by local developer Amp Energy India, and a 110MW project to be developed by Brookfield Renewable. Combined, these solar farms have the capacity to generate 1,076,000 megawatt hours (MWh) of renewable energy per year, an amount Amazon says is "enough to power over 360,000 average-sized households in New Delhi annually." Amazon's project with ReNew Power for a 210 MW solar farm in Rajasthan is said to be one of the largest solar corporate power purchase agreements (PPA) by a technology company in India and also the largest single business-to-business (B2B) project that ReNew Power is developing in India.
Amazon has executed more than 500 MW of renewable energy PPAs with Brookfield globally, and now 110 MW in India.
Amazon also announced 23 new solar rooftop projects as part of its fulfillment centers across 14 cities in India including in Hyderabad, Kolkata, Chennai, Pune, Vadodara, Mumbai, Bengaluru and others. This will result in generating an additional capacity of 4.09 MW of renewable energy, and contribute to powering Amazon's fulfilment centres in India.
Amazon now has a total of 379 renewable energy projects across 21 countries including 154 wind and solar farms and 225 rooftop solar projects, representing 18.5 GW of renewable energy capacity. In the Asia-Pacific region, the company now has a total of 57 renewable energy projects, and by the end of 2021, the company reached 85% renewable energy across its business.
Abhinav Singh, director of customer fulfilment, supply chain and Amazon transportation services, Amazon India, told TOI that this brings the total number of solar rooftop projects in India to 41 with 19.7 MW of renewable energy capacity and will power Amazon's fulfillment network in India. "We had committed to be 100% renewable by 2030 and with this we will be able to accelerate it by five years to 2025," he added. The tech giant had earlier set a target of powering its operations with 100% renewable energy by 2030.
"We are bringing new wind and solar projects online to power our offices, fulfillment centers, data centers, and stores, which collectively serve millions of customers globally, and we are on a path to reach 100% renewable energy across our entire business by 2025," Adam Selipsky, CEO of Amazon Web Services, said.
#302
The industrial sector needs to transition towards more sustainable practices to address environmental concerns. This includes improving energy efficiency and shifting towards renewable energy sources. India is making significant strides in renewable energy, with a target of 450 GW by 2030. The auto industry is also making efforts to reduce its carbon footprint. The shift towards sustainability is both a necessity and an opportunity for the industrial sector.
The industrial sector, a cornerstone of global economic development, has been a significant contributor to environmental concerns. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), global energy-related CO2 emissions grew by 0.9% or 321 Mt in 2022, reaching a new high of over 36.8 Gt.
While this growth was slower than the rebound of over 6% in 2021 following the Covid-19 pandemic, this stark reality underscores the urgent need for industries to transition towards more sustainable practices.
The Paris Agreement, a landmark international accord, aims to limit global warming to well below two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Achieving this ambitious goal requires a concerted global effort, particularly from the industrial sector, which has traditionally been reliant on fossil fuels.
As the Co-chair of the strategic B20 Taskforce on Energy, climate change and resource efficiency we have been engaged in productive dialogues among industry leaders, policymakers, and environmental advocates. I'm confident that we've reached significant recommendations that can decidedly lessen the impact of climate change. Simultaneously, we've centred our efforts on proposals that aim to bridge the disparity between industrialised and emerging nations.
#303
To reduce their environmental impact, industries worldwide are adopting various strategies. These include improving energy efficiency, which not only reduces emissions but also lowers operational costs. For instance, the implementation of energy-efficient technologies in the steel industry - such as hydrogen injection in blast furnaces - could reduce CO2 emissions significantly.
Another strategy is the shift towards renewable energy sources. The use of solar, wind, and hydropower can significantly reduce the carbon footprint of industries. India is making significant strides in renewable energy, with its installed capacity reaching 165.94 GW as of October 2022, accounting for 40.6% of the total power capacity. The country aims for 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. This shift not only contributes to climate goals but also enhances energy security and creates jobs. As the cost of renewable energy continues to fall, it is becoming an increasingly viable option for industries.
Significant interventions have already made a substantial impact on industrial pollution. For instance, the cement industry, one of the largest industrial emitters of CO2, has made strides in reducing its carbon footprint. Here in India, through the use of alternative fuels and raw materials, as well as energy-efficient technologies, the industry has reduced its CO2 emissions significantly, meeting 2020 targets ahead of schedule, and on track to meet 2030 targets as well.
The auto industry, a significant contributor to global CO2 emissions, is also making strides towards sustainability. At VW Group India (Škoda Auto Volkswagen India), we are committed to driving the green agenda in India. We have implemented several measures to reduce our carbon footprint, such as improving energy efficiency in our manufacturing processes and transitioning towards renewable energy sources. The capacity of our rooftop solar power plant at Chakan will reach 18 MWp this year and is among the largest in the country. It supplies 30% of the plant's electricity consumption and saves 18,000 tonnes of CO2 that would otherwise be released into the environment.
VW Group itself is fully committed to the BEV transformation. We anticipate that by 2030, battery-electric vehicles will constitute up to 50% of our global sales. By 2040, we expect that all new vehicles from our Group will be zero-emission in most major markets.
While the challenge is significant, the industrial sector's shift towards sustainability is both a necessity and an opportunity.
Disclaimer: Views and opinions expressed in this article are solely those of the original author and do not represent any of The Times Group or its employees.
#304
NTPC Renewable Energy, a subsidiary of NTPC, has announced the commercial operation of its first project, a 50 MW wind project in Gujarat. This brings the total installed capacity of the NTPC Group to 73,874 MW, with a total renewable energy operational capacity of 3,364 MW. NTPC REL is also investing in green hydrogen technologies. Based on green hydrogen storage and microgrid principle, it is setting up a large capacity in Ladakh. NTPC targets to have 60 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2032.
NTPC Renewable Energy, a wholly owned subsidiary of NTPC, has declared the commercial operation of its first project -- the 50 MW wind project at Dayapar in Kutch, Gujarat.With this commercial operation, which started Saturday, the total installed capacity of the NTPC Group has become 73,874 MW and the total renewable energy (RE) operational capacity now stands at 3,364 MW.Dayapar is the first project of NTPC Renewable Energy Limited. NTPC REL was incorporated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of NTPC on October 7, 2020, to accelerate the addition of renewable energy capacity to NTPC.Apart from Dayapar, there are 15 other renewable energy projects under different stages of execution, totalling a capacity of 6,210 MW. Also, when fully commissioned, the Dayapar wind complex will add 450 MW to NTPC's existing wind portfolio of 100 MW.In addition to solar and wind capacity, NTPC REL is also investing in green hydrogen technologies. Based on green hydrogen storage and microgrid principle, it is setting up a large capacity in Ladakh.
NTPC Green Energy Ltd (NGEL), another wholly owned subsidiary of NTPC, has commissioned a renewable energy capacity of 2,711 MW and is setting up two solar projects -- a 40 MW solar project at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and a hydrogen hub at Pudimadaka in Andhra Pradesh.As part of its long-term growth plan and sustainability, NTPC targets to have 60 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2032. 
#305
Former Union power secretary Anil Razdan stated that the cost burden of transitioning to renewable energy should primarily fall on developed countries. He emphasized the importance of India being a developer of renewable technologies through investments in research and development. Razdan highlighted the significance of energy and equity, efficiency, and affordable energy for the entire population. He also mentioned the challenges India faces due to high population density and limited land availability, affecting per capita energy access.
Former Union power secretary Anil Razdan on Tuesday said that the cost burden of transitioning from fossil fuels to renewable energy should primarily fall on developed countries and not just developing nations.
Razdan, who was speaking at The Times of India's Right To Excellence - Energy Summit 2023, also stressed on the importance of India not just being a buyer but also a developer of renewable technologies through substantial investments in research and development.
In his keynote address at the event, Razdan, who is also the chairman of Energy and Environment Foundation, underscored the significance of what he termed the "Es" in the broader energy context, emphasizing two key mantras: the necessity for energy and equity, and the critical importance of efficiency.
He emphasized that catering to a growing nation's energy needs requires a balanced approach, acknowledging the complexities involved in ensuring affordable energy for the entire population while navigating the challenges of government subsidies within the constraints of taxation.
Razdan also highlighted the challenges India faces due to its high population density and limited land availability, which can affect per capita energy access.
During the summit, Razdan also advocated for habitats to be as energy-neutral as possible, emphasizing the need for a comprehensive and sustainable approach to energy and environmental considerations.
Several industry leaders, ecopreneurs and policymakers participated in the mega summit in the national capital to discuss strategies for harnessing sustainable energy sources to further push the nation's growth.
In his opening remarks, Prasad Sanyal, Times Internet's Business Head, said that India has taken giant strides in the renewable energy sector and described the nation's journey as both amazing and inspirational.
"Overcoming challenges of size and population, India has showcased its commitment to development while making a significant contribution to the global fight against climate change," he said.
#306
Climate change can impact Maharashtra's renewable energy potential, reveals latest research.
The study done by researchers at Pune's Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) poses an interesting question for the state's push for renewable energy. According to it, Maharashtra currently ranks among the top states in terms of installed renewable energy capacity (10.78 GW), with wind power capacity of around 5 GW and solar power capacity of 2.75 GW.
The state also accounts for 15% of the country's wind energy potential.
As of June 30 this year, renewable energy contributes 24.36% percentage to state's total power mix. However, researchers warned that projections of solar energy potential for the future over the western Indian region including states like Maharashtra shows a negative trend in the immediate future. "This likely decrease in potential is projected throughout the year irrespective of the seasons. The reason for this, based on our climate models and projected simulations, is that solar radiation over western India may decrease during all seasons with a chance of possible impact on solar energy production. The reduction however is estimated to be around 10 to 15% in the next 50 years," said Parthasarathi Mukhopadhyay, scientist F at IITM, Pune.
In case of wind potential, central India mainly across Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh show a positive trend in most of the climate models. "The monsoon months are projected to be windy. The seasonal analysis indicates higher wind speed in the winter and monsoon months when the wind potential is maximum," he added.
The study, titled 'Analysis of future wind and solar potential over India using climate models' published in the journal Current Science, has been authored by TS Anandh, Deepa Gopalakrihsnan and Mukhopadhyay, researchers from IITM Pune under the Ministry of Earth Sciences as well as Centre For Prototype Climate Modelling, New York University, Abu Dhabi, UAE.
Researchers carried out the study by using various state of the art climate models, devised by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC),to analyse the wind and solar projections for the renewable energy sector over the Indian subcontinent for the immediate future (next 40 years).
According to the state's Unconventional Energy Generation Policy, which the government unveiled in January 2021, Maharashtra intends to continue on its leadership track and generate 40% of its electricity from renewable sources, by 2030. The state experiences 250 to 300 days of bright sunshine annually thus on an average it witnesses up to four to six kilowatt hour (kWh) per square metre.
Between 2016 and 2021, the installed solar capacity of Maharashtra has increased by 614% from 385.76 MW in 2016 to 2753.30 MW in 2022, according to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). The state's Unconventional Energy Generation Policy seeks to implement 17.36 GW of transmission system-connected renewable power projects by 2025, including 12.93 GW of solar projects including 2 GW of grid-connected rooftop solar projects.
#307
Hyundai Motor India Limited (HMIL) has announced it will hit the RE100 benchmark of 100% use of renewable energy by 2025. The company currently fulfils 64% of its energy requirements using renewable sources. The RE100 is a global corporate renewable energy initiative by the Climate Group, bringing together businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity.

The company has been purchasing green power from Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) to increase its RE portfolio of 64%. HMIL has achieved 80% water neutrality by utilizing recycled RO water and rainwater from harvesting ponds with a capacity of 350000 tonne and has reduced hazardous waste by 19.4% & non-hazardous waste by 14.3% over the past five years.
Gopala Krishnan CS, chief manufacturing officer, HMIL, said, "Our sustainability initiatives are focused on carbon neutrality and energy transition, circularity, clean tech products and services, operational eco-efficiency, and natural capital conservation. Our 'Integrated Solutions to Climate Change' initiative aims for carbon neutrality by 2045."
Apart from energy and water management, reduction in carbon emissions and other initiatives, HMIL's investment in electric vehicles is also part of its green target. The company has announced it will invest over Rs 32,000 crore from 2023 to 2033 in expanding its EV range and enhancing its current car and SUV platforms.
#308
India's renewable energy sector, which is on the cusp of another growth spurt driven by the next wave of policies and reforms, offers significant investment opportunities for global and domestic investors, states the latest report by the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA), and non-profit venture Invest India.
The report highlights several sectoral reforms that will attract more investment to clean energy sector companies - the green energy corridor scheme, Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes, privatisation of state electricity distribution companies (DISCOMs), and more.
Researchers say the upcoming Union budget offers the government an opportunity to introduce these reforms and streamline policies. "Ahead of the Union Budget 2023-24, the government's approval of an initial capital outlay of Rs19,744 crore (about US$2.43 billion) under the green hydrogen mission is the latest example of a policy push that will position India as a green hydrogen export hub and attract global investors," says report co-author Shantanu Srivastava, who is an energy finance analyst at IEEFA.
The report further highlights three technologies offering ample space for global investments - battery energy storage systems (BESS), offshore wind, and green hydrogen.
"India plans to integrate large-scale solar and wind energy into its grid by 2030. In this context, battery storage is a vital technology solution as it allows time to shift the dispatch of solar and wind power," says report's co-author Amit Manohar, also the sector lead - Renewable Energy at Invest India.
Srivastava added that the government should use the Union Budget to introduce a PLI scheme for grid-scale storage to scale up domestic capacities. "It should also prioritize offering import duty waivers for setting up local battery manufacturing capacities," he said.
#309
The analysis also found strong potential in India's offshore wind power segment. "Despite the slowdown, the ministry of new and renewable energy's announcement of a 4 gigawatt (GW) tender for offshore wind power off the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Gujarat has reinvigorated the sector. Offshore wind potential in India is pegged at 195GW along the 7,600km coastline with an ability to provide utilisation factors of more than 50-55%," says Manohar.
Besides technologies, the report also identifies some emerging trends that offer new avenues for investments in India's renewable energy sector. "Corporate decarbonisation is a growing trend buoyed by increasing net-zero commitments by Indian companies. The booming corporate power purchase agreement (CPPA) market is catering to this demand, as witnessed by the recent spate of large CPPA deals in the country," says Srivastava.
Other important trends include energy-as-a-service model and hybridising solar and wind power for minimising variability and optimally utilising the infrastructure.
Researchers also suggested that the government should provide incentives in the budget to facilitate the growth of manufacturing industry of wind power equipment, bringing in more domestic competition.
Of late, there has also been a push for privatising DISCOMs, which offers new investment opportunities. "Renewable energy and power sector companies can find several opportunities for value creation if state governments privatise larger DISCOMs. State governments should incentivise DISCOMs to partner with private counterparts to reduce aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses and bring efficiencies to the sector," says Srivastava.
GREEN LIGHT
Renewable energy companies getting ready for sectoral reforms
India's growth as sustainable energy economy to get accelerated
Government should introduce reforms in upcoming Union Budget
India has strong potential in offshore wind power segment
Need for privatising larger DISCOMS
#310
GE Renewable Energy has announced the opening of a new renewable hybrids factory in Vallam near Chennai. The site boasts 250 employees, 20 of whom are women.
"This facility that has been set up following the lean principles of reducing waste and improving productivity and is well suited to strengthen GE's place in the hybrids space," said Prakash Chandra, renewable hybrids CEO, GE Renewable Energy.

The Chennai factory will make the Flexinverter and Flexreservoir products and help integrate them with the Flexiq offering, from GE's newly-launched Flex portfolio.
The Flexiq is a digital platform that provides design, operation and fleet management solutions to enable grid compliance. The Flexreservoir is a system-integrated battery energy storage and power electronics solution for multiple configurations and market applications. The Flexinverter is a containerized solution that delivers a plug & play, factory integrated power conversion platform for utility scale solar and storage applications.
"The site is centrally located and connected to national highways, airports, and seaports and the factory will be able to fully produce and integrate systems at the site, which reduces the time taken at site and helps create more value for customers," the company said in a statement.
#310
New capacity addition of non-hydro renewable energy increased 80% to 3.4GW in the December quarter from 1.9GW installed in the year-ago period, according to the latest market report from CEEW Centre for Energy Finance (CEEW-CEF).
New capacity addition of non-hydro renewable energy increased 80% to 3.4GW in the December quarter from 1.9GW installed in the year-ago period, according to the latest market report from CEEW Centre for Energy Finance (CEEW-CEF).
Sequentially, however, new non-hydro renewable capacity additions declined 27% in the period under review from the September quarter on account of intensifying supply chain constraints.
#311
Solar energy made up 92% of the total renewable capacity added during the third quarter, driven partly by a 142% rise in rooftop installations totalling 700MW. This growth in new capacity was registered in spite of solar module prices rising 40% to Rs 21/Watt-peak over 2020.
Overall, in terms of net capacity additions, renewable energy formed 75% of the total 4.5GW capacity added -- net of 900 MW, which were converted to captive mode - during the period. Coal-based power generation capacity of 2,095 MW was added in Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Bihar.
The increase in new RE capacity comes in the backdrop of the budget highlighting energy transition and climate action as key pillars of future economic development.
"Although we have seen robust volumes of finance flow towards the transition in recent months, much more is needed simply because India's targets are so ambitious. The budget proposal to issue sovereign green bonds can help plug this gap. If it also helps spur development of the domestic corporate green bond market, then it could turn out to be a force multiplier," CEEW-CEF director Gagan Sidhu said.

Despite high solar module prices and the imminent basic customs duty, the tariff discovery continued to show a downward trend during the quarter, with the lowest tariff discovered at Rs 2.17/ kWh. The share of renewables in the total installed capacity reached nearly 27% during the quarter.
"Renewable capacity addition is highly dominated by solar energy and can be a threat to grid stability. Exploring alternatives such as hybridising two renewable technologies or blending renewables with conventional resources is crucial for ensuring a stable power supply," CEEW-CEF research analyst Ruchita Shah said.
#312
State govt on Wednesday granted in-principle approval to seven renewable energy (RE) projects with a cumulative capacity of 192.41 MW at an investment of Rs 1,386.09 crore.
The 8th single window committee (SWC) granted approval to a 99 MW wind power project, five ground-based solar projects of 91.77 MW, and one rooftop solar project of 1.64 MW. These projects will leverage Odisha's natural potential for renewable energy generation, emphasising the state's commitment to achieving its goals under the Odisha Renewable Energy Policy, 2022.
Principal secretary, energy, Vishal Kumar Dev, emphasised the importance of renewable energy in driving sustainable economic growth. He reiterated the govt's commitment to facilitating investments and ensuring timely implementation of approved projects.
So far, SWC has accorded in-principle approval for investment proposals worth Rs 9,781.47 crore for a total capacity of 1,441.79 MW in the sector.
During the meeting, progress on various projects approved by the 7th SWC was also reviewed. Officials from the energy department, Gridco, OPTCL, power distribution companies, OHPC and EIC participated.
#313
India has emerged as a leader in the renewable energy market, ranking fourth in renewable energy installed capacity, wind power capacity, and solar power capacity. The government has implemented policies and programs to support the growth of the sector, while the private sector has driven innovation and job creation. India has attracted significant foreign investments and is set to become the world's largest PV manufacturing country. However, challenges such as insufficient grid infrastructure and storage capacity need to be addressed. The government must continue to promote adoption, innovation, and the expansion of existing schemes to further develop the renewable energy market.
Climate change is an urgent matter that requires immediate action from all stakeholders. The necessity to move to a net zero future is no longer a matter of when but how.
People and organisations globally are switching to renewable energy sources because it is one of the most effective tools in the fight against climate change, and there is every reason to believe that it will emerge victorious.
While various solutions exist to help greenhouse gas emissions, solar and wind are considered the most promising avenues for combating climate change.
Considering the urgency, the recently held G20 Summit has set a benchmark journey in which the global leaders agreed to triple global renewable energy capacity by 2030 and phase down coal power generation - the single largest source of energy-rated CO2 emissions. The environmentalists, international communities, and the overall renewable energy sector welcomed the move.
Now, as we approach the 2023 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP28) in Dubai, the world is looking for more firm initiatives to help the world achieve the Paris Agreement target of limiting global temperatures to 1.5°C. The juncture presents a unique opportunity for the world to align with the goals laid within the Paris Agreement. It coincides with changing scenarios of the global energy market, backed by the rising demand for green energy solutions.
Among all nations, India has emerged as a leader in the renewable energy market. Today, it holds the 4th rank in renewable energy installed capacity (excluding large hydro), fourth in wind power capacity, and fourth in solar power capacity, stated the Renewables 2022 Global Status Report by REN21, an energy-policy think tank. In addition, earlier this year, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said that the world's fastest-growing economy had surpassed its renewable energy target of 175GW by 2022 and is expected to reach by 2023.
#314
Both the government and the private sector have played a crucial role in achieving the targets. While the government focused on creating special policies and programs supporting the growing space via initiatives like the National Solar Mission, PLI schemes, and FDI, the private sector has been instrumental in driving innovations, skill development, job creation and much more. As an outcome of the government's initiatives, the non-conventional energy sector received an FDI inflow of $14.12 billion between April 2000 and March 2023, underscoring India's position in the global renewable energy market, as per IBEF.
The rise in FDI inflow has further pushed the manufacturing in the renewable segment to the north. For instance, India's cumulative PV module manufacturing nameplate capacity doubled from 18GW in March 2022 to 38GW in March 2023. A new joint report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) and JMK Research and Analytics has predicted that India is poised to become the world's largest PV manufacturing country after China, with plans to add 110 GW of PV module capacity in the next three years.
Similarly, while the PLI scheme fortifies the supply side, the government has also stimulated demand for local solar PV modules through initiatives such as domestic content requirements (DCR) in schemes like PM-KUSUM and CPSU. Introducing the Approved List of Module Manufacturers (ALMM) in 2019 has significantly bolstered demand for domestic solar PV modules.
Despite these accomplishments, the sector faces challenges, notably the struggle of manufacturers to implement projects due to a lack of grid infrastructure, storage capacity, lack of awareness among the customers, and skilled manpower in this segment. This limitation results in underutilisation and outreach of renewable energy, with power generated by solar and wind plants left unused due to insufficient demand.
Way Forward
The world is observing India closely, scrutinising every governmental policy, initiative, and technological development in the segment. As a result, the private sector is well positioned to attract foreign investments for their multiple projects. Similarly, the government too is looking for opportunities that help the space promote the adoption, promotion, and innovation in the renewable energy market. Keeping the same in view, India and Saudi Arabia recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation in the field of energy, petroleum, circular economy technologies, digital transformation, and more. As more and more governments and organisations push for renewable energy resources for power generation, it becomes imperative for Indian manufacturers to create new products and innovate new technologies. And for the government, it gets even more crucial to widen the scope of existing schemes and launch new ones.
#315

Only 8% of total electricity being consumed in Delhi is coming from renewables, a joint report from Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) and Ember, an environment think tank, has revealed.
Only 8% of total electricity being consumed in Delhi is coming from renewables, a joint report from Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) and Ember, an environment think tank, has revealed.
The report is based on a study, which covered 16 states in the country that consume 90% of the total power generated. The study analysed each of these states to assess how quick they can switch to renewable sources of energy.
The assessment was based on four different dimensions, including decarbonisation and readiness of power ecosystems.
Renewable energy is derived from natural sources. It is clean and inexhaustible, altogether a boon for humankind. In this backdrop, it is unacceptable that the Capital, already bedeviled by pollution, is way behind its target. Authorities must spot and remove the roadblocks. The capital needs renewable energy more than ever before.
According to the report, while Delhi has lots of potential, it is still lagging behind on various aspects. Out of the target to achieve 2,762 MW of installed renewable energy capacity, the city could only achieve 290 MW as of January 2023.
Karnataka and Gujarat made maximum progress in overall preparedness and commitment in the transition to clean electricity, the study found.
The report suggested that the states need to undertake multi-dimensional efforts to smooth transition to clean electricity. It also suggested that the state governments must bridge the gap between their intent and policy implementation.
For Delhi, the study suggested an improvement in the renewable capacity sector. It also recommended further tapping of rooftop energy generation potential.
"With a renewable energy installed capacity of 270MW as of September 2022, the state has just utilised 12% of its renewable energy potential. If we look at the generation aspect, 8% of the state's power mix comes from renewable sources (FY 2022). This highlights that Delhi still has the potential to further decarbonise its power sector along with increasing participation in green market mechanisms," said Saloni Sachdeva Michael, energy analyst, IEEFA.
#316
Power minister Ratan Lal Nath sought investments in the renewable energy sector during the recently concluded 4th Global Renewable Energy Investors Meet in Gujarat.On Wednesday, the state unveiled its plan to generate 815MW of power from renewable sources by 2030, including 396MW from solar energy, 400MW through hydro pump storage, 15MW from hydro, and 2MW from bio-energy, with a total investment of Rs 13,000 crore.Highlighting the state's progress in solar energy generation, Nath stated, "Before 2018, a total of 2.5 MW of electricity was generated through solar energy. In the last six-and-a-half years, the BJP-led govt in Tripura has increased the generation by more than 20.5 MW."He emphasised that Tripura has been transitioning from conventional sources like gas and coal to renewable energy, in line with the global trend.During the event, which was attended by PM Narendra Modi, Nath received an award for Tripura achieving the third position among the NE states in the promotion of non-conventional sources of energy. He emphasised on the state's industry-friendly govt at the meet.We also published the following articles recently
AP to generate 72.6 GW renewable energy by 2030
Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu committed Andhra Pradesh to generating 72.60 GW of renewable energy by 2030, aligning with India's target of 500 GW. He announced plans for a global university focused on clean energy and circular economy, inviting global investors to benefit from the state's favorable policies and skilled workforce.
RE Invest 2024: ReNew to raise renewable energy capacity to 50GW by 2030 in Gujarat
ReNew plans to increase its renewable energy capacity to 50GW by 2030 and produce 1 million tonnes of green hydrogen annually, creating around 100,000 jobs. The company will also establish solar manufacturing facilities in Gujarat, which will support significant capacities for ingot/wafer production, solar cell production, and solar modules.
Renewable energy not optional, but a compulsion: Dhankar
Vice-President Jagdeep Dhankhar underscored the critical need for renewable energy at the RE-Invest 2024 event, labeling climate change as an existential threat. He pointed to India's ancient texts for environmental wisdom and urged worldwide cooperation. Dhankhar also acknowledged India's advancements in green hydrogen and sustainable energy consumption.
#317
Chief secretary Pradeep Kumar Jena on Tuesday chaired the first policy advocacy and vision group meeting on renewable energy to discuss the progress in the green energy sector.
Jena stressed on the importance of ensuring timely implementation of the renewal energy policy. He emphasized on making renewable energy an integral part of the state's overall energy policy to achieve the targeted production goal in Odisha by 2030.
Director, GRIDCO, G B Swain presented an overview of the incentives and exemptions available for promoting renewable energy projects in the state.

#318
Renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind power, have minimal environmental impact compared to fossil fuels. They are also sustainable and abundant, ensuring a long-term energy supply. Transitioning to renewables enhances energy security and creates jobs, driving economic growth. It also promotes energy independence by empowering individuals and communities to generate their own energy. Technological advancements in renewables benefit various industries. Additionally, renewable energy helps preserve natural ecosystems, mitigates health risks, and reflects our global responsibility to combat climate change. Embracing renewable energy is not just a choice, but a responsibility for a sustainable future.
Russia will never be seen as reliable energy supplier, US energy official says
US Assistant Secretary for Energy Resources, Geoffrey Pyatt, stated that Russia will never again be seen as a reliable energy supplier after the US imposed fresh sanctions on Moscow. Pyatt also mentioned that the US and its partners in the Group of 7 are committed to denying Russia any energy revenues. The US imposed the first sanctions on owners of tankers carrying Russian oil priced above the G7's price cap of $60 a barrel. Pyatt clarified that gas exports are not covered by Western sanctions, unlike oil.
Pollution eclipses solar energy potential: Study
A study by IIT Delhi found that only 29% of India's landmass has good potential for harnessing solar power, with northern regions, including Delhi, being the worst affected by air pollution. The study also revealed that 0.2% of the country's area is losing its photovoltaic potential, amounting to around 50GW of solar energy per year. The authors of the study emphasized the need to assess air quality and other factors that impact photovoltaic potential before implementing solar power projects. The study also highlighted the impact of aerosol loading on solar potential, stating that reducing aerosol levels could increase suitable landmass for photovoltaic use.
#319
India, committed to climate mitigation programme, today stands 4th globally in renewable energy installed capacity, 4th in wind power capacity and 5th in solar power capacity, as per International Renewable Energy Agency - Renewable capacity statistics 2023.The recent government initiatives have played a major role in this. As of November 2023, the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has approved 50 solar parks with an aggregate capacity of around 37,490 MW in 12 states across the country.Also, the domestic industry is looking for ways to push this aggressively.At COP26 held in 2021, India committed to an ambitious five-part "Panchamrit" pledge. They included reaching 500 GW of non-fossil electricity capacity, generating half of all energy requirements from renewables, to reducing emissions by 1 billion tonnes by 2030.India as a whole also aims to reduce the emissions intensity of GDP by 45%. Finally, India commits to net-zero emissions by 2070.About 44% of India's energy requirements at present come from non-fossil sources and are likely to touch as high as 65% by 2030, much higher than what the country pledged at the COP summit in 2021.India's ambitious target of reaching 500 GW by 2030 and net zero by 2070 would require green transition in the way its people live and in the way they business.
The intent for a green change can be seen in the hiring for green jobs. Studies suggest that India has the potential to create 35 million green jobs by 2047.New job positions are emerging in the green industry because of climate change. As the clean energy sector is expanding, so is the demand for renewable energy professionals.In 2021-22, the renewable energy sector hiring was eight times that in 2020-21. The solar and wind energy sectors alone added close to 53,000 workers in project development roles in 2021-22, as per a report by CEEW-NRDC and the Skill Council for Green Jobs.The IEA World Employment report 2023 noted a surge in clean energy jobs globally. In India, the solar and wind energy sectors are adding thousands of workers to new projects and will continue to create steady employment opportunities in the coming years.With an estimated requirement of 220 GW of solar capacity by the end of this decade, India needs to significantly ramp up its manufacturing capacity. Its solar photovoltaic (PV) module manufacturing capacity exceeded 39 GW by September-end 2022 and is expected to reach about 95 GW by the end of 2025.AdSolar, the solar PV manufacturing arm of the Adani portfolio, aims to boost India's position as the global solar manufacturing hub. It is building India's first fully integrated and comprehensive solar manufacturing ecosystem of 10 GW in Mundra, Gujarat. It will be the group's largest manufacturing set-up and is expected to create over 13,000 green jobs.The project, which will be completed by 2027, currently employs around 2,500 people for operations and maintenance, erection and commissioning, and support functions.Another major player, Tata Solar Power, manufactures solar cells and modules, rooftop solar panels and solar water pumps. The company provides solar power to 13 state utilities in India, and has shipped more than 3 GW of solar modules worldwide. Its portfolio boasts India's largest rooftop solar project, vertical solar farm and floating solar power project.The Tata company employs around 1,000 people and will continue to add more as the scope of work expands.Kolkata-based Vikram Solar reached 2.5 GW capacity in 2022 and offers services in engineering, procurement and construction, as well as operations and maintenance.Emmvee, which manufactures solar water heating systems and solar panels, reached a module manufacturing capacity of 3 GW by 2023-end and expects to expand capacity to 5 GW in 2024. The Bangalore-based company employs 650 workers in India and at its sales offices in Germany.The current fiscal began on a positive note with solar energy constituting a significant 18.66% of the overall installed power capacity, totalling 82.63 GW. Renewable energy contributes 32.69% to the total installed power capacity, amounting to 144.75 GW. The Adani Group has an operational capacity of 10.93 GW and plans to add 6 GW in 2025 and 6-8 GW every year thereafter.According to the Skill Council for Green Jobs report, major policy reforms and production-linked incentives (PLI) are set to boost local manufacturing of green products. India's emphasis on the LiFE (Lifestyle for Environment) Mission which is focused on sustainable living; 'Panchamrit', the government's five-step plan to achieve net-zero emissions; and India's steering of global initiatives, such as the International Solar Alliance, are seen shaping the global direction on green growth.As per the report, these trends have the potential to help India unlock $1 trillion in value by 2030 and $15 trillion by 2070.
























































