#1
Brazil lacks planning and goals to phase out fossil fuels, responsible for global warming and the third-largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the country-deforestation and agriculture being the first.
The Lula government (PT) committed to the UN to zero emissions by 2050, and Minister Alexandre Silveira (Ministry of Mines and Energy) said that oil will still be important for the next 20 to 30 years, but the country has not set intermediate deadlines for reducing the use of these energy sources.
Furthermore, the plan to guide actions to combat the climate crisis has never been updated. Launched in 2008, it foresaw actions until 2017.
"Our policy is not one of energy transition. It is still, mainly until 2030, an expansion of these fuels," says Natalie Unterstell, from the Talanoa Institute.
Currently, Brazil is the eighth-largest oil producer in the world, and there is a forecast of a 63% increase between 2022 and 2030. In a statement, the Ministry of Mines and Energy says that the climate policy will be detailed in a future plan and that the energy transition "is not a process of rupture".
#2
Ana Toni, Secretary of Climate Change at the Ministry of the Environment, says she still hasn't seen any clear strategy in Brazil that directs oil resources towards financing the energy transition.
"Norway does this with their sovereign fund, but there's a specific strategy there," she told Folha. "It would be something to be discussed. I haven't seen this proposal here in Brazil yet."
Her statements come as the government continues oil exploration in long-term plans despite constant environmental warnings. "The big problem is that we have a bigger enemy which is time. There's a climate emergency happening," she says.
Heading the secretariat created in 2023, Toni is involved in discussions on the topic at the G20 and COP30 (Conference of the Parties, United Nations Climate Change conference) - both in Brazil.
She advocates for more money from rich nations to developing countries and says Brazil needs to advance the climate debate in the oil and gas sector.
#3
The world increasingly needs clean and renewable energy to strengthen our energy security and, most importantly, to combat climate change.
Floods and forest fires in Brazil, record temperatures in the United Kingdom- the impacts of climate change are becoming more evident. To tackle this challenge, we need a global transition to clean energy sources.
This is a great opportunity-a chance to boost economic growth, create quality jobs, and foster greater stability, both nationally and internationally.
The investment opportunities are also enormous, representing nearly USD 7 trillion (BRL 40 trillion) for the global economy. This journey involves a wide range of technologies: wind turbines and solar panels harnessing wind and solar energy; carbon capture, storage, and utilization; clean hydrogen; and sustainable biofuels that decarbonize sectors like transportation, including aviation.
In the UK, we are committed to achieving a clean energy system by 2030. That's why we created Great British Energy, a public British company that invests in clean energy, accelerating renewable energy investment and removing unnecessary barriers to vital energy infrastructure.
In Brazil, with approximately 90% of our electricity matrix being clean and sustainable and 50% of our total energy matrix renewable-far above the global average-we still have much room for progress. We recently launched a project called Fuel of the Future to accelerate the use of sustainable fuels in aviation and machinery, advance ethanol blending with fossil fuels, and adopt hybrid vehicles powered by electricity and biofuels.
We take pride in standing together as leaders in the fight against climate change. But the reality is that the world is off track to meet its climate targets. We must limit global temperature increases to a maximum of 1.5°C. To achieve this, we aim to drive progress in three key areas.
First, we need to be bold. Both Brazil and the UK announced new Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) at COP29 in Baku this month, setting ambitious goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We strongly encourage other countries-particularly G20 economies, responsible for around 80% of global emissions-to make the necessary cuts to get the world back on track.
Second, we need financing. Currently, emerging markets and developing economies receive only 15% of clean energy investments. The International Energy Agency estimates this figure must increase sixfold by the early 2030s. Brazil is leading the way with its new investment platform to mobilize much greater private capital flows into its climate transition projects. We want to help others follow this model and significantly increase private sector investment by connecting investors with major sustainable projects worldwide.
Third, we need alliances. Like-minded countries working together towards a common goal can achieve great things. On Monday (18th), Brazil spearheaded the creation of a new Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty, which will pool resources, public policies, and new technologies to help the world's most vulnerable. The UK was one of the first countries to join this initiative.
And on Tuesday (19th), we jointly launched a new Global Clean Energy Alliance, bringing together various countries-developed and developing, from the North and South-around a clear objective: to help triple renewable energy production capacity and double energy efficiency by 2030, as outlined in the Global Stocktake, the UN's global progress review under the Paris Agreement.
The alliance will focus on specific missions, starting with removing barriers to financing.
We will support initiatives to enable developing countries to secure the investment needed to meet their climate goals. We will also provide technical support to help them develop a range of projects that can attract private financing, creating quality jobs, fostering growth and prosperity, and reducing carbon emissions.
Both the Global Clean Energy Alliance and the Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty will continue to grow and develop. We are proud to have taken these first steps together during the G20 Leaders' Summit in Rio de Janeiro this week. It is a sign of the strengthening ties between our two countries.
Next year, we will celebrate 200 years of diplomatic relations between the United Kingdom and Brazil. This will be a moment not only to celebrate but also to deepen our cooperation further.
After all, we Brazilians and Britons share many things-not just our love for football but also our determination to improve workers' lives and tackle the global challenges that increasingly affect us all.
This spirit has driven the steps we've taken this week, and it will fuel our ambition to work ever more closely in the future.
#4
In an interview at the G20 summit in Rio, the Minister of Mines and Energy, Alexandre Silveira, stated that as long as there is demand, Brazil will produce oil and natural gas.
"The issue of energy transition and oil is not one of supply, but of demand," he said. "As long as the world demands oil and gas, someone will have to supply it. Let it be us, the cheapest and closest option, to create jobs and bring economic and social development."
The statements were made in response to questions about the agreement to import gas from Argentina, signed this Monday (18), amid international pressure to reduce fossil fuel production.
Brazil is under pressure to halt the opening of a new exploratory frontier on the equatorial margin, considered by the sector as the most viable alternative to prevent a decline in national production after the pre-salt peak in the early next decade. Silveira is in favor of exploring the region.
#5
The President of the Central Bank, Roberto Campos Neto, believes that the climate agenda also concerns Central Banks worldwide since the interest rate policy is greatly affected by climate events that distort prices.
"Investors and people understand that there is a concern [in Brazil], that there are projects and what their sequence is," says the BC president.
He believes that Brazil has an advantage and should be seen as a major producer of goods that use sustainable energy.
"In this rearrangement of production chains, Brazil is a serious candidate to attract a lot of investment in products that are produced by sustainable energy. Few countries have the conditions that Brazil has."
According to Campos Neto, central banks worldwide had difficulty correlating the green agenda with their mandates. But they began to understand that it is an agenda for monetary authorities.
#6
Next week, world leaders will gather in Baku to discuss climate commitments and chart our next steps.
The science is clear: if we want a liveable planet, global warming needs to be limited as much and as urgently as possible. Limiting global warming to 1.5°C is still just about possible. But our collective ability to meet this target depends on three key issues: ambition, finance and action.
In a year of unprecedented heat records globally, as droughts, wildfires, heatwaves, storms and heavy rain wreak havoc, threatening lives, livelihoods and our biodiversity, the stakes are high. But this is not all doom and gloom. Solutions exist. And so does, on paper at least, a determination to tackle the climate crisis. But we need to get to work. Now.
The big emitters - including those from G20 - must shoulder the main responsibility. But cutting emissions and adapting to a changing climate is on every country's tasklist. The next months are crucial.
Ahead of COP30 in Brazil, countries are working on climate action plans, the so-called Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). Current plans, even if fully implemented, are far from what the world needs. So we need to raise ambition, and turn these plans into blueprints for stronger economies and societies. Because decarbonising economies, cutting emissions and building resilience to climate impacts, are profoundly positive.
Finance is rightly a key focus. A key goal of COP29 is to agree on a new financial target to support developing countries after 2025. Developing countries need trillions of dollars to support their mitigation, adaptation, and loss and damage efforts.
But as the 2024 Emissions Gap highlights, "ambition means nothing without action". Success depends on raising ambition and finance, but also on understanding and addressing implementation gaps.
When it comes to translating climate goals into action, we see familiar challenges. Political will. Capacity gaps, in finance, human resources, skills and knowledge. Inadequate data systems. An ability to incentivise and bring in private sector support. And challenges in joining the dots, connecting decisions, policies and actions at local, sectoral, national and international levels.
Success comes when countries adopt a holistic approach, which considers that economic development and climate action go hand in hand. Success comes when countries think long-term, beyond political cycles. When climate is linked to broader development targets. When decisions are backed by sound data. When national, sectoral, and local strategies are aligned, realistic and transparent. And where all stakeholders have a sense of ownership. And above all, success relies on partnerships that enable joint action.
Tripling renewable power generation capacity and doubling energy efficiency are key to cutting greenhouse gas emissions. UNOPS - the organization that I lead - supports global efforts to decarbonise the building and construction sector, as part of the Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction, together with the UN Environment programme, UN-Habitat and others. This is a very high-emitting sector, which in 2021 accounted for around 37% of energy and process-related CO2 emissions and over 34% of energy demand globally. Yet buildings and their emissions are currently largely absent from countries' NDCs. We work with countries such as Senegal, Ghana, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Burkina Faso to help them develop roadmaps to plan their new NDC objectives and identify required actions. Our focus is to help make these plans practical and inclusive.
The bottomline is: every fraction of a degree of warming matters, for lives, for livelihoods and for our planet. We need fast, fair and determined action to cut emissions and build resilience. Finance and policy are key but ultimately, it's countries' willingness - and capacity to implement that can make or break our ability to keep alive the 1.5 degree target.
#7
Brasília
Technicians from Ibama (Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources) responsible for analyzing the new studies presented by Petrobras to explore oil in the so-called Block 59 of the Foz do Amazonas basin rejected the material submitted by the oil company and recommended, in addition to denying the environmental license, that the process be archived.

#8
In a swearing-in ceremony attended by President Lula, Petrobras president Magda Chambriard strongly defended the opening of new exploratory oil frontiers in the country, despite international calls for an energy transition.
"Someone has to finance this transition," said Magda, after citing the company's investment projects in renewable energy and emission reductions. "And to finance this transition, investments in oil exploration and production are essential."
"It's impossible to talk about an energy transition without mentioning who will pay the bill. And it is oil that will pay," she continued, then highlighted that commodity reserves are finite and need to be replenished. "In this line, it is essential to develop the reserves of the equatorial margin."
The company's main focus in this regard is the so-called Block 59 of the Foz do Amazonas basin, which had its license denied by Ibama (Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources). 
#9
In recent years, Brazil has recorded deforestation records in the cerrado, low river levels in the Amazon, heavy rains in the South, and fires in the Pantanal. In 2024, due to a mix of climatic and human factors, fires are spreading across the world's largest floodplain in an unprecedented manner for this time of year, putting pressure-and doubt-on the fire-fighting plans of public agencies, especially the federal government.
Rodrigo Agostinho, president of Ibama (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources), advocates for redesigning the strategy for combating and preventing wildfires, floods, and other extreme climatic events. "We master firefighting techniques, have brigades, but we've never had a fleet of aircraft, a structure," he says to Folha. "Brazil has one of the coolest things in the world, which is the smoke squadron, but it doesn't have a squadron against fire."
This week, the government made military aircraft available to help combat the fires. As Folha recently reported, the lack of planes and helicopters delays operations. Agostinho states that environmental agencies are operating with a plan developed after the 2023 fires and that the agency currently has 2,100 brigades, a record number-expected to reach 2,400 by the end of the year. "But even with everything we've designed so far, it may be insufficient. And then we have to look at what we can rethink. The challenge is to set up a structure to match the climate crisis. Brazil still doesn't have this structure. It's not Ibama's crisis: it's national, involving states and municipalities," he says.
#10
An aerial operation launched about 5 million seeds this Wednesday (17), National Forest Protection Day, to restore the vegetation of areas affected by floods in Rio Grande do Sul.
With the support of two army helicopters and one from the Federal Highway Police, teams flew over sections of the Taquari River to replant in slopes and banks.
The seeds were distributed in small clumps of germinative paper, a biodegradable material used in cultivation, and thrown in handfuls by agents of the Taquari 2 military operation, IBAMA (Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources), and SEMA (State Secretariat for the Environment).
The sowing included 24 native species, such as angico, jabuticabeira, maricá, and timbaúva, and three forage plants (oats, turnip, and vetch) to protect the soil. In addition to seed dispersal, the action included the planting of seedlings.
Fundamental for soil stabilization, the riparian vegetation of the region was damaged by the historic floods that hit the state in May.
Damage to the protective forest can worsen landslides and pose a risk to the population living near slopes or traveling on highways adjacent to the river.
#11
BNDES (National Bank for Economic and Social Development) and Acelen have agreed on financing of R$ 257 million for the construction of an agro-industrial center to research and manipulate the physical characteristics of macaúba, a plant from the cerrado with very high energy value.
The company aims to use the species to produce one billion liters of SAF (an English acronym for sustainable aviation fuel) and renewable diesel starting in 2028 in Bahia. This is the first BNDES financing for SAF production, considered a potential vector for Brazil's industrialization and export in the coming years. So far, fuel production in the country is limited to pilot plants, and global commercialization is scarce, especially outside wealthy countries.
The loan, tied to the TR (Referential Rate), indicates the bank's preference for macaúba in SAF production.
#12
In recent years, Brazil has recorded deforestation records in the cerrado, low river levels in the Amazon, heavy rains in the South, and fires in the Pantanal. In 2024, due to a mix of climatic and human factors, fires are spreading across the world's largest floodplain in an unprecedented manner for this time of year, putting pressure-and doubt-on the fire-fighting plans of public agencies, especially the federal government.
Rodrigo Agostinho, president of Ibama (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources), advocates for redesigning the strategy for combating and preventing wildfires, floods, and other extreme climatic events. "We master firefighting techniques, have brigades, but we've never had a fleet of aircraft, a structure," he says to Folha. "Brazil has one of the coolest things in the world, which is the smoke squadron, but it doesn't have a squadron against fire."
This week, the government made military aircraft available to help combat the fires. As Folha recently reported, the lack of planes and helicopters delays operations. Agostinho states that environmental agencies are operating with a plan developed after the 2023 fires and that the agency currently has 2,100 brigades, a record number-expected to reach 2,400 by the end of the year. "But even with everything we've designed so far, it may be insufficient. And then we have to look at what we can rethink. The challenge is to set up a structure to match the climate crisis. Brazil still doesn't have this structure. It's not Ibama's crisis: it's national, involving states and municipalities," he says.
#13
The predominantly hydroelectric power matrix gave Brazil a privileged position in the race for energy transition by placing the country among those that are cleaner than those burning fossil fuels for the same purpose. This predominance of clean energy, however, has shrunk in recent years. A study by Fiemg (Federation of Industries of the State of Minas Gerais) shows a reduction from 97% to 89% in the percentage of sources considered clean since 1995.
The change in the matrix chart changes, shrinking the percentage of clean energy, according to Fiemg, due to the growth in the participation of non-renewable sources, mainly gas-fired thermal power plants. Coal and diesel thermal plants and nuclear power plants are also among the non-renewable sources (the latter is not considered dirty).
The percentage in relation to the total begins to grow in the 1990s and peaks from 2010, reaching over 20% of the total. These sources are activated according to the needs of the electrical system. In 2022, they accounted for 10.6%.
The shrinking share of clean energy was recorded despite the advance of other sources, such as solar, biomass, and wind power, which also took up space compared to hydroelectric generation, which reached 94.2% in 1995 and was 64% in 2022, according to the mining industry's analysis.
The industry entity is campaigning for the resumption of hydroelectric construction and sees willingness from the Lula government to put the issue back on the table. According to Flávio Roscoe, president of Fiemg, hydroelectric plants were "wrongly demonized as harmful to the environment." The last major hydroelectric project in Brazil was the Belo Monte plant in Pará, which has been surrounded by controversies and criticisms since its construction began in 2011, due to cost, environmental impact (it changed, for example, the course of the Xingu River), and socio-economic impact (it employed 25,000 workers, thousands of residents were resettled, and Altamira had the highest homicide rate in Brazil).
#14
The oil company insists on exploration, even after Ibama (Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources) gave a series of indications that it does not see the venture as viable.
To achieve the goal, Magda asked President Lula to intervene in the case.
In an interview in February, she described the delay in licensing for the region's exploration as "frustrating." "It's scary to see that the denial puts into question Petrobras' ability to handle a new frontier."
#15
Brasília
This week, Potássio Brasil received six more licenses from the Amazonas Environmental Protection Institute (Ipaam), which allowed progress to the final phase of the construction of the Autazes (AM) mine.
When completed, the venture will have the capacity to produce the inputs necessary for manufacturing 20% of the fertilizers consumed in Brazilian agriculture, which today imports 95%.
The mining company has been operating in the Amazon region since 2009. The majority (85%) of the shareholders are foreign (United Kingdom, Australia, and Canada). The remaining shareholders are Brazilian.
The investment forecast is US$ 2.5 billion (R$ 13 billion), and more than R$ 1 billion has already been allocated to the initial phase of the largest project of its kind in the Amazon region.
However, there are legal risks that could delay the project, which began about a decade ago.
The venture is the target of a civil action brought by the Federal Public Ministry of Amazonas. One question is the competence of Ipaam to grant licenses instead of Ibama (Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources).
The licenses allow the advancement of works in Autazes, a municipality located on the border with the Mura indigenous lands, another point of controversy, according to the MPF.
#16
Petrobras announced on Tuesday (9) that it has found an accumulation of oil in ultra-deep waters in the Potiguar basin, on the Brazilian equatorial margin. It is the second discovery made in 2024 in the region, which is the subject of dispute between the energy and environmental sectors of the government.
It was the first time that the state-owned company found reservoirs similar to the giant discoveries in Guyana and Suriname in the region, which is expected to reinforce pressure for the release of environmental licenses in the area. Named Anhangá, the well responsible for the second discovery was drilled near the border between Rio Grande do Norte and Ceará, 190 kilometers from Fortaleza. It is 24 kilometers from the first discovery, called Pitu Oeste.
The discovery is unprecedented in the region because it was made in a type of reservoir called turbiditic. "This is what we are expecting on the equatorial margin," said geologist Pedro Zalán, who has had a career in the state-owned company. For him, the result reinforces indications that giant reserves like those of neighboring countries can be found in basins such as Barreirinhas and Foz do Amazonas, for which Petrobras has already received denials from Ibama (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources). The state-owned company emphasized in a statement that the discoveries still require evaluations to confirm their economic viability. And it reiterated its defense of oil exploration in the region, which has also faced criticism from environmental organizations in light of commitments to reduce the use of fossil fuels.
#17
Petrobras committed environmental infractions that resulted in the application of more than 3,000 fines by Ibama (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources) in the last ten years. The penalties total R$ 985.6 million ($ 199 million).
The progress of these infringement notices shows that there have been settlements of processes -including payment of part of the debts- in the amount of R$ 49.9 million, only 5% of the total. The remaining R$ 935.6 million is still outstanding.
Petrobras, in a statement, says it "reserves the right" to contest the fines "administratively in cases where there are controversial points."
Most of the fines relate to oil exploration processes, such as improper oil discharge into the sea, continuous disposal of water resulting from adopted procedures, and non-compliance with conditions established in licenses issued by Ibama.
Contestation strategies lead to processes dragging on for years, including prescription.
#18
Green hydrogen, corn ethanol, and SAF (Sustainable Aviation Fuel). These are some of the renewable fuels and energy sources that, according to experts, can guide the energy transition in Brazil in the coming years and decades.
The topic was discussed at the seminar "Clean Energy: The Energy Transition in Brazil," organized by Folha. The event took place on Monday (19), commemorating the newspaper's 103rd anniversary.
According to Petrobras' director of energy transition and sustainability, Maurício Tolmasquim, decarbonization of the planet will occur through electricity produced from renewable sources. However, he stated that some sectors, such as petrochemicals, refining, steelmaking, and fertilizers, will need another energy source, hydrogen, as it is more viable.
He said that green hydrogen will be important for the production of fuels such as green ethanol and synthetic fuels-made from the combination of hydrogen and carbon dioxide.
Former senator Kátia Abreu, another panel participant, highlighted the importance of ethanol obtained from corn.
"It is an energy source widely available throughout Brazil. Among its comparative advantages, corn ethanol is available year-round, not just during the rainy season."
Another advantage pointed out in corn ethanol is DDG (Distillers Dried Grains), also obtained in ethanol production. These grains are rich in proteins, vitamins, and amino acids and are used in cattle feed.
#19
The world added 50% more capacity in clean energy generation last year compared to 2022. In total, 510 gigawatts (GW) were added, with solar photovoltaic energy accounting for three-quarters of the additions worldwide.
The 510 GW is equivalent to more than 36 new Itaipu plants, the second-largest hydroelectric plant in the world, with an installed capacity of 14 GW. The largest dam, from the Chinese Three Gorges power plant, has a capacity of 22.5 GW.
In an unprecedented race for renewable and clean energy sources (including nuclear), the next five years will see the fastest growth in the history of this market, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA). The investment boom is expected to triple by 2030, the capacity of clean energy generation in 130 countries, generating an additional 3,700 GW, equivalent to 264 Itaipu plants. Solar and wind energies-the most promising in Brazil-will account for 95% of global expansion.
#20
The Arayara Institute, an NGO working against fossil fuels, informed the Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (Ibama) about a "possible" oil leak 438 km off the coast of Amapá. According to the NGO, the leak may have originated from a vessel. The letter was sent to Ibama last Tuesday (30).
The Chico Mendes Institute for Biodiversity Conservation (ICMBio) and the Ministry of Environment and Climate Change were also notified. There is no confirmation of the existence of an oil leak, which would only be possible through an on-site verification, according to the institute. This verification would also face difficulties since the satellite image used for the suspected leak is from September 2023.
Additionally, as per Arayara, the point of the alleged leak is outside the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), the area beyond the territorial sea over which Brazil exercises sovereignty. There are doubts about who should act in the event of an oil leak in this area, claimed by the country for the extension of the EEZ, according to the NGO. On Thursday afternoon (1st), the executive secretary of the Ministry of Environment, João Paulo Capobianco, told Reuters that the government is seeking information about the alleged leak in international waters. Ibama is checking satellite data and collaborating with the Navy to identify ships that passed through the area, according to the secretary.
Folha reached out to Ibama to comment on the possibility of an oil spill, but there was no response at the time of publication. The detected stain reportedly covers an area of 170 km2, as stated in Arayara's letter, making it a significant incident.
#21
The level of environmental impact from the oil exploration project in the Foz do Amazonas basin, carried out by Petrobras, reached the maximum scale, with a high magnitude of negative impact, influence on biodiversity composed of endangered species, and compromise of still unknown areas.
The calculation was made by Ibama (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources) and is detailed in documents obtained by Folha. Part of the reports was accessed through the Access to Information Law.
The drilling of the so-called Block 59, planned by Petrobras and the government of Lula (PT) for 2024, had an environmental impact degree calculated at 0.5%. The scale ranges from 0 to 0.5%, according to current legislation, so the index reached the maximum possible. The main components of the indicator-impact magnitude, biodiversity, impact persistence, and commitment to priority areas-were also defined at their maximum values, leading to the 0.5% index. Petrobras did not respond to the questions from the repor
#22
President Lula began a series of foreign trips this Monday (27), with the first stop in oil-rich nations in the Middle East, aiming to seal investment partnerships.
He departed for Riyadh, the Saudi capital, where he will stay on Tuesday and Wednesday. Since the end of the previous government of Jair Bolsonaro, the authoritarian monarchy has been signaling interest in expanding its portfolio of investments in Brazil.
At that time, Riyadh expressed interest in investing $10 billion in Brazil. However, the areas of investment still needed to be finalized.
In September, during the G20 summit in New Delhi, Lula met with Crown Prince and Prime Minister Mohammed bin Salman, who showed interest in fields such as oil, gas, and renewable sources.
After Saudi Arabia, Lula will visit neighboring Qatar, where the goal is also to attract investments to Brazil.
#23
Despite resistance from the government's environmental sector, Petrobras' president, Jean Paul Prates, stated on Wednesday (11) that the state-owned company expects to receive a license in 2024 to drill an oil well in the Foz do Amazonas basin.
The company has been campaigning for the approval of this activity and organized an event with BNDES (National Bank for Economic and Social Development) to discuss the topic, within the context of what the sector now calls a "just energy transition".
During the event, the state-owned company and the bank reinforced the argument that exploration is necessary to renew Brazil's reserves and could contribute to the preservation of the forest by directing resources.
The company had its request to drill in the coast of Amapá, a non-oil producing area considered environmentally sensitive, denied. The company has appealed, but the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (Ibama) has not yet made a decision. In another licensing request, Ibama authorized the drilling of wells in the coast of Rio Grande do Norte, an area that already has oil production.
#24
A completely silent car, powered by electricity, capable of traveling almost 600 kilometers without needing to refuel, and which releases water vapor through the exhaust pipe.
This is the Toyota Mirai, a vehicle that was loaned for testing a pilot project by the University of São Paulo, which will produce the world's first ethanol-based green hydrogen.
Mirai means "future" in Japanese, but, despite being suggestive, the choice of car has nothing to do with the name, but with the fact that it is one of the only models equipped with fuel cells, which transform hydrogen into electricity.
At the moment, the car is fueled with regular hydrogen. The first rounds with the ethanol-based product should only take place in mid-2024 when the pilot plant -under construction- will be able to produce the first kilograms of the sustainable fuel.
Green hydrogen gets its name because it is made from renewable sources, unlike the common version that has fossil origins, mainly natural gas.
Currently, the most used production method is by breaking down the water molecule using solar or wind energy. The objective of the USP pilot project is to develop a new form, using ethanol as a source.
Green hydrogen has gained centrality in the climate debate due to its potential to decarbonize sectors such as transport, steel, the chemical industry, and electricity generation itself.
However, transporting the fuel is still challenging, as it requires storage to be carried out at low temperatures and high pressure, making logistics difficult and the final product more expensive.
#25
The severe drought in rivers in the Amazon, with more damaging consequences for cities and communities in Amazonas, has given political impetus to the pressure for the paving of the BR-319 Highway, which connects Manaus to Porto Velho.
The work could lead to more grabbing of public lands along the highway, increase illegal deforestation, and boost criminal logging, according to documents from the environmental licensing process currently underway at Ibama (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources).
On a visit to Manaus, vice-president Geraldo Alckmin said he had spoken the previous day with the Minister of Transport, Renan Filho, about the highway paving work.
According to Alckmin, a working group was created to analyze the project. The group's goal is to allow licensing to move forward, said the vice president.
#26

Tax incentives granted by the federal government benefited 1,112 companies that were fined by Ibama (Brazilian Institute of Natural and Renewable Resources) over ten years.
A cross-reference carried out by Folha with data from the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service and the environmental institute shows that these companies received at least R$84.2 billion in tax exemptions in 2021 - the most recent information available. Since 2012, this group has been fined at least R$2 billion by Ibama.
Among the companies fined and which received incentives from the federal government, the most benefited are Petrobras and Vale.
The incentives include programs such as Prouni, Sudam, and Pronac, in addition to benefits in devices that could be extinguished by the Tax Reform under discussion in Congress -IPI, PIS, and Cofins.
Although the data refers to a single year, these benefits are renewable, and companies can receive them for longer. They are awarded based on at least 11 government programs.
#27
An alcohol and sugar plant that appears on a list of the largest companies in Brazilian agribusiness seeks to secure ownership of farms within a territory where isolated indigenous people live, in the northwest of Mato Grosso.
In order to do this, the company tries to erase the existence of indigenous people. This existence has been attested by Funai (National Foundation of Indigenous Peoples) for over 20 years. Coprodia (Agricultural Cooperative of sugar cane Producers from Campo Novo do Parecis), which claims to produce 180 million liters of ethanol and 2.7 million bags of sugar per year, claims in Federal Court the right to explore two farms in the Indigenous Land Kawahiva of Rio Pardo, in the region of Colniza (MT), on the border with Amazonas.
Documents on the properties, records from Ibama (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources), and reports on the occupation of the area show that Coprodia has rural properties within the indigenous land. The information was confirmed to Folha by the cooperative's lawyer, Francisco Faiad.
"We carried out two inspections, and there is no trace of indigenous ownership. A request is in the Federal Court for the Coprodia area to be withdrawn from this demarcation in quotation marks", said Faiad. "The investigations found neither indigenous people nor traces." The first interdiction of the area was carried out in 2001 by Funai, in view of the existence of Kawahivas that chose to isolate themselves in the region. Expeditions carried out until 2006 found 45 temporary indigenous camps.
In 2007, Funai validated the conclusions of an anthropological report that attested to the existence and presence of indigenous people in isolation. In the same year, the agency determined a restriction on the use of the area until definitive demarcation. Admission is only authorized for members of Funai.
#28
The president of Petrobras, Jean Paul Prates, stated that the sale of oil from the equatorial margin, where the mouth of the Amazon River's basin is located, should only take place at least five years after a possible authorization from Ibama (Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources ).
Prates also pointed out that it could take longer, since, even if the drilling is approved, it is necessary, first, to confirm the existence of oil in the place and, later, to see if its exploration is economically viable - only then would a platform for the operation be built. "This well was licensed, the well was drilled... It doesn't mean, however, that it will start producing tomorrow," he said during a session at the Senate Infrastructure Committee.
If the feasibility of exploration is confirmed, then Petrobras needs to ask the ANP (National Petroleum Agency) to renew its authorization to sell the product and, from then on, set up its station, which lasts for about three years, even according to Prates. "So we are talking here of at least five to eight years to have the first oil in this area, if we receive the license later this year, or at the beginning of next year", he concluded.
Petrobras foresees at least 5 years to market oil from the mouth of the Amazon River after the license. The President of the state-owned company also said that the equatorial margin should include wind energy projects
#29
Minister Alexandre Silveira (Ministry of Mines and Energy) stated that a blackout like the one that occurred this Tuesday (15), which affected 25 states and the Federal District, is an extremely rare phenomenon and only observed with the occurrence of two concomitant events.
The cabinet holder defended the robustness of the Brazilian electrical system, noting that the reservoirs are full and stating that the events are not linked to failures in planning. He said that, as there were acts of sabotage at the beginning of the year, he will ask organs such as the Federal Police to verify that Tuesday's incidents did not occur on purpose.
"What happened today, it's important to say, is extremely rare, and has absolutely nothing to do with system planning and power generation," he said. The Minister also ruled out that the blackout could have been caused by an event involving instability in the transmission of renewable energies, such as solar and wind energy, which can suffer fluctuations and are abundant in the Northeast.
According to him, one of the incidents occurred in Ceará due to an overload in the transmission, which caused the system to collapse in the region. The line is private, and Silveira said it is too soon to reveal the name of the owner.
#30
In the west of Mato Grosso, a group of around 3,000 indigenous people raise around R$ 10 million a year planting soybeans, corn and beans and charging tolls for vehicles that cross the paved road of their reserve, Utiariti, located between the third and fourth cities that produce more grains in Brazil, Sapezal and Campo Novo do Parecis.
 A permission from Ibama ( Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources), but with veiled support from Funai, the indigenous people live in 86 villages and have developed crops in an area of 17,000 hectares, which corresponds to about 1.5% of the total reserve, of 1.2 million hectares. between the Verde and Papagaio rivers.
According to Arnaldo Zunizakae, 51, the son of an indigenous chief and responsible for agricultural production in one of the four cooperatives in the reserve, both the money raised in production and the toll fees are distributed equally among the indigenous people, at an average of R$ 3,330 per year.
The indigenous people also cultivate small crops and raise farm animals for subsistence in the villages. In addition to the Parecis, the land is home to other ethnic groups, such as the Nambikwara and Manoki.
#31
The Belo Monte hydroelectric power plant's impact on fishing on the Xingu River, in Pará, could be four times stronger than that admitted by the company responsible for the undertaking.
Norte Energia, which is responsible for operating the plant, sent a document to Ibama (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources) in which it informs that it has received 3,909 additional requests for compensation from fishermen in the region. The letter is dated March 2023.
The number of requests has reached 6,015, according to Ibama. Until then, the operator of Belo Monte had committed to pay compensation of R$ 20,000 to 1,976 fishermen.
The company started doing what it calls case studies, with analysis that even include a questionnaire "containing issues and cultural aspects of local fishing." If the requests are validated, the number of fishermen entitled to compensation will reach 7,991.
The payment of compensation to thousands of workers who were left without anything to fish in the Xingu River, with the start of the plant's operation, was a recommendation by Ibama in the course of the process that analyzes the request for renewal of the hydroelectric operating license.
#32
The president of Ibama (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources), Rodrigo Agostinho, followed the agency's technical opinion and denied this Wednesday (17) a request made by Petrobras to drill the basin at the mouth of the Amazon River with the goal of exploring for oil in the region.
The decision was taken after Ibama showed concern regarding the oil company's activities in a region of socio-environmental vulnerability.

Greenpeace is campaigning to protect the recently discovered Amazon Reef off the coast of Brazil and French Guiana from development by Total and BP oil company. French Guiana mangroves and all the coast land is threatened by oil exploration and their oil spill risks
"There is no doubt that Petrobras was offered every opportunity to remedy critical points of its project, but that such project still presents concerning inconsistencies for the safe operation in a new exploratory frontier of high socio-environmental vulnerability", says Agostinho in the document.
The initial drilling was the target of pressure from Petrobras, the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and even from the leader of the government in Congress, Randolfe Rodrigues (Rede-AP), who is from the state where the place the company intended to drill is located.
As Folha showed, however, Ibama had already indicated that there was a lack of studies to prove that drilling, even if initially and for the purpose of studies, would not have an environmental impact.
#33
The operation by Ibama (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources) that blocked 1.2 million m³ of illegal wood (equivalent to 480 Olympic swimming pools) in the country has revealed a fraud scheme called "rota inversa" ("inverse route").
The amount would yield R$ 2 billion (US$ 407 million) to criminals, estimates the agency. The suspects used the virtual wood credit market to 'heat up' the illegally extracted material.
The institute's intelligence team identified in the National System for the Control of Forest Products (Sinaflor) timber credits registered as originating in places where there is usually no exploitation and which were sold to companies in areas where there is a high incidence of irregular extraction.
The virtual credit is a document issued for the sale of wood. The investigation believes that the so-called "inverse route" would serve to try to make the illegal input pass for legal.
Regular farms in the Midwest and Northeast issue virtual wood credits, without necessarily having extracted the product
#34
The licensing process for Petrobras to drill an oil well in block 59, in the region of the mouth of the Amazon River, is at an advanced stage of processing. After submitting environmental studies, the emergency plan and a disaster response simulation are awaiting approval from Ibama (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources). Privately, experts say that if the test is successful, the license should be approved almost automatically. As a consequence, there is concern that this release will trigger a cascading effect for other blocks not yet explored in the region, which is considered environmentally sensitive.
The area of the mouth of the Amazon sedimentary basin was granted by the ANP (National Petroleum Agency) in 2013 and is part of the Brazilian equatorial margin, which runs from Amapá to Rio Grande do Norte. Block 59 is located approximately 160 km from the coast of Oiapoque (AP) and 500 km from the mouth of the Amazon River itself.
At the time of the concession, the environmental fragility of the region was acknowledged by a technical opinion. The document mentions the biodiversity and the richness of fishing resources in the place, also pointing out that there is a lack of studies to know more about the place. The area is also home to the largest mangroves in Brazil, on the coast of Amapá, and immense systems of coral reefs, which were recently discovered and about which very little is known.
#35
Combating climate change in Brazil involves reducing deforestation and conserving forests. As well as expanding the use of renewable energies and rethinking the transport sector.
This is what Mercedes Bustamante, president of Capes (Coordination for the Improvement of Higher Education Personnel) and one of the reviewers of the synthesis report of the AR6 (Sixth Assessment Report) of the UN climate scientific panel (IPCC), released this Monday (20), points out.
According to her, the country needs to think about climate adaptation solutions that alleviate disasters like the one in São Sebastião (SP). "Maybe we don't even need IPCC charts anymore, just newspaper headlines to see what's going on." The report describes such extreme events.
As a response to them, says Bustamante, she cites the use of fossil fuels. "We have more financial incentives for the fossil fuel industry than for actions to adapt to climate change. Not only do we not put resources into solutions, but we invest in the problem."
#36
In January, during a visit by German Prime Minister Olaf Scholz to Brasília, President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (PT) said he hoped to conclude the trade agreement between the European Union (EU) and Mercosur by mid-2023.
The treaty, proposed more than 20 years ago, was only signed in June 2019, during the Bolsonaro government, but it was never ratified, due to a series of obstacles, in particular Brazil's setbacks in the socio-environmental agenda.
For the German MEP Anna Cavazzini, vice-chair of the delegation for relations with Brazil and chair of the committee on the internal market, before the text becomes effective, it will need a revision that guarantees stricter commitments with the environment.
In her view, the terms, written two decades ago, are outdated and, as they are non-binding, do not guarantee actions aligned with the reduction of deforestation.
"It has really non binding, suspended, sustainability standards that at the end will not have a great effect. So we need to adjust this and put sustainability and the fight against deforestation in the core of the agreement and only then can we advance", she says.
The delegation, which is chaired by Portuguese MEP José Manuel Fernandes, from the Social Democratic Party, plans to visit Brazil in May.
In the interview with Folha, Cavazzini, however, demonstrates optimism in relation to other legislation recently discussed in the European Parliament, such as the new regulation that prohibits the entry of commodities linked to deforestation.
The legislation, which has the potential to affect exports from Brazil, rejects a series of products -meat, soy, wood, rubber, cocoa, coffee and palm oil- from areas that have been deforested, even with legal permission, after December 31, 2020.
"This new regulation is really a kind of a revolution, if you think like that, because for the first time we have rules in the European Union that look at supply chains and will at the end prohibit imports from goods from deforested areas. This is a big, big step forward in the global fight against deforestation."
Although the regulation offers protection to the Amazon, the Atlantic Forest and the Chaco, typical forest biomes in South America, it was criticized by environmentalists for excluding the Cerrado from the agreement.
In this and other discussions that are fundamental to policies against climate change, says Cavazzini, the challenge of the green deputies is to show that "the future can only be claimed in full", without dichotomy between economy and sustainability.
"If we don't protect the climate, we also destroy our economy and the future of our planet", she points out.
#37
The Lula administration has initiated the dismantling of illegal mining activity and the removal of more than 20,000 prospectors who have invaded the Yanomami Indigenous Land in recent years, supported by gestures from past governments.
Ibama (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources) is leading the operations with the support of Funai (National Foundation for Indigenous Peoples) and the National Public Security Force.
In two days, they destroyed a helicopter, an airplane, a tractor, and logistical structures. Two guns and three boats were seized.
In view of the actions, part of the prospectors has fled on foot through the forest, a route that also involves a boat trip along the Uraricoera River, in Roraima, and a 30 km walk along a neighboring road that connects a village to a port used as a logistics base for the illegal mining.
The exodus has made the price of clandestine flights soar, and an air trip can cost up to R$ 15,000. Unable to pay, poorer invaders have followed by land.
#38
"Not only will that money make our planet cleaner, greener, and more secure, it will save us money in the long run, both from the green jobs it will create and from the money we won't have to spend on humanitarian responses in the future", said Samantha Power, USAID Administrator, during the launch of their new strategy last April.
"We know that every dollar invested in adapting to climate change can yield between two-to-ten dollars in benefits, and sometimes even more. So, implementing this strategy is not only the necessary thing to do or the right thing to do, it's also the cost-effective and smart thing to do", she added.
The new climate strategy, which was announced on Earth Day in April this year, has a budget of US$ 600 million and inaugurates the intention to transform USAID into a climate agency.
Gillian Caldwell, a professional with a diverse background on the climate-environmental and human rights agendas, is responsible for planning, directing and supervising all climate and energy work of USAID.
The strategy sets various ambitious targets, such as achieving the reduction of six billion tons of carbon emissions by 2030. "This is equivalent to almost all the emissions in the US in an entire year", Caldwell tells Folha.
In addition to managing projects in different countries and mobilizing multiple sectors, the goal is to catalyze US$ 150 billion for climate finance by 2030.
Despite the impressive figure, Caldwell highlights that "we need US$ 3 to U$$ 5 trillion a year by 2030 to address the global needs of mitigation and adaptation". "The private sector is investing in climate responses, especially mitigation to some extent, but only 3% of private dollars are going to adaptation", she adds.
Other objectives are to increase the resilience and adaptive capacity of 500 million people, especially Indigenous peoples, women and youth, and to promote the conservation, sustainable use and restoration of 100 million hectares, in areas such as the Amazon forest.
USAID maintains in Brazil a large number of projects, developed in partnership with the federal and state governments. "Our biodiversity work in Brazil last year protected habitats for endangered species and ensured positive impacts on 45 million hectares of land throughout Brazil. You can see that as an area larger than California", Caldwell emphasizes.
During the interview, she also comments on other topics, such as the Inflation Reduction Act, recently launched by president Biden, the largest investment in combating climate change in US history.
Earlier this year, USAID launched a new climate strategy. What are the main objectives of this new strategy? We launched a brand new strategy in the USA on Earth Day, April 22nd of last year. And that strategy will take us through 2030. And it represents the most ambitious strategy USAID has ever launched to try to tackle the climate crisis. And in fact, agencies across the Biden administration are all being tasked with getting very ambitious with respect to climate mitigation and adaptation.
The strategy sets a series of very ambitious, high level targets for achievement by 2030, including reducing carbon emissions by 6 billion tons. That's about all the US emissions in an entire year, so substantial carbon emissions reductions. Also, much of that will be achieved through nature based solutions, so we want to protect and preserve 100 million hectares of carbon critical landscapes.
#39
The environmental proposals have jumped to the front pages of the government plans of the best-placed presidential candidates in the polls in these elections.
With an economic focus, the programs by Lula (PT), Jair Bolsonaro (PL), Ciro Gomes (PDT), and Simone Tebet (MDB) mention topics such as deforestation control, energy transition to renewable sources, and bio-economy, among other solutions.
The actions are part of different strategies for economic growth and also for positioning the country in global geopolitics, in messages that seek to respond to the context of the diplomatic crisis guided by the explosion of deforestation in the Bolsonaro years.
The re-election candidate is also trying to correct the course of the environmental discourse, although he is the only one of the four not to establish the end to illegal deforestation as one of the goals of his mandate.
To summarize the proposals of the four candidacies, Folha consulted the government programs delivered to the TSE (Supreme Electoral Court) and interviewed representatives of the slates regarding these documents - except Bolsonaro's, who did not respond to the newspaper's request.
"Expand Brazil's role as a provider of climate solutions and establish itself as a world leader in a global green supply chain", predicts Bolsonaro's program. The text speaks of "freedom for responsible use of natural resources that each individual or community has legally available", mentioning indigenous people, quilombolas, and ribeirinhos.
Lula's government plan promises to support the "emergence of an inclusive green economy, based on the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of the biodiversity of all Brazilian biomes".
"Brazil's growth necessarily involves a clear environmental agenda, capable of proving that a standing forest is worth much more than a deforested field", says Ciro Gomes' plan.
#40
The environmental proposals have jumped to the front pages of the government plans of the best-placed presidential candidates in the polls in these elections.
With an economic focus, the programs by Lula (PT), Jair Bolsonaro (PL), Ciro Gomes (PDT), and Simone Tebet (MDB) mention topics such as deforestation control, energy transition to renewable sources, and bio-economy, among other solutions.
The actions are part of different strategies for economic growth and also for positioning the country in global geopolitics, in messages that seek to respond to the context of the diplomatic crisis guided by the explosion of deforestation in the Bolsonaro years.
The re-election candidate is also trying to correct the course of the environmental discourse, although he is the only one of the four not to establish the end to illegal deforestation as one of the goals of his mandate.
To summarize the proposals of the four candidacies, Folha consulted the government programs delivered to the TSE (Supreme Electoral Court) and interviewed representatives of the slates regarding these documents - except Bolsonaro's, who did not respond to the newspaper's request.
"Expand Brazil's role as a provider of climate solutions and establish itself as a world leader in a global green supply chain", predicts Bolsonaro's program. The text speaks of "freedom for responsible use of natural resources that each individual or community has legally available", mentioning indigenous people, quilombolas, and ribeirinhos.
Lula's government plan promises to support the "emergence of an inclusive green economy, based on the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of the biodiversity of all Brazilian biomes".
"Brazil's growth necessarily involves a clear environmental agenda, capable of proving that a standing forest is worth much more than a deforested field", says Ciro Gomes' plan.
#41
Ugandan climate activist Vanessa Nakate, 25, Christian, daughter of a Kampala businessman and politician, organized her first strike for climate justice in January 2019, inspired by Greta Thunberg.
Just over a year later, in February 2020, she was, alongside other activists, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, to call on governments, companies and banks to stop subsidizing fossil fuels. A photo from the AP (Associated Press) news agency at the event cropped out Nakate, provoking global outrage and a public retraction of the company. "You didn't just erase a photo, you erased a continent. But I am stronger than ever," she said at the time.
Since then, Nakate has participated in several global climate events, such as the Global Landscapes Forum and Youth4Climate, and received extensive international press attention. The activist was also one of the highlights of COP26 (26th UN Conference on Climate Change), last year, speaking to thousands of people. "Humanity will not be saved by promises" was one of the sentences she used the most at the climate marches in Glasgow.
Nakate, who is part of Fridays for Future Uganda -an international movement of young people and school students who, among other activities, skip Friday classes to participate in demonstrations to demand action from political leaders against the climate crisis-, is the founder of the Rise Up Movement, aimed at amplifying the voices of activists in Africa, and part of the Vash Green Schools Project, which supports the energy transition in schools in rural communities of Uganda.
In this interview for Folha, she talks about the little attention being paid to the impacts of the climate crisis in Africa and about the historical responsibility of developed countries for greenhouse gas emissions -these nations, according to her, must finance a specific fund for loss and damage.
"There are certain things that we cannot adapt to. Communities cannot adapt to hunger. Communities cannot adapt to the loss of their identities, the loss of their cultures, the loss of their histories."
According to the latest IPCC (UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) report, 2.6 million to 3.4 million new displacements related to the climate crisis occurred in Sub-Saharan Africa in 2018 and 2019 and, with global warming of 2.5°C by 2050, 56 million to 86 million people will have to migrate from their countries.
Last week, Nakate returned to the World Economic Forum, this time to participate in two panel discussions. She also took part in a march to raise awareness of issues that climate activists believe are being largely ignored, such as the human suffering from extreme weather events, particularly in developing countries.
#42
General Augusto Heleno, minister of the Institutional Security Office of the Presidency, authorized the advancement of seven gold exploitation projects in a preserved area of ??the Amazon.
Heleno is the executive secretary of the Defense Council, a body that serves to assist the President of the Republic, Jair Bolsonaro, in matters of sovereignty and defense. It is up to the GSI minister to say yes or no to proposals for mining along the border.
With projects submitted by the National Mining Agency, the general allowed mining in São Gabriel da Cachoeira (AM).
Among those who received authorization from the GSI to advance in prospecting for gold in the Amazon are businessmen who had areas embargoed by the Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources after the registration of infractions.
Heleno defended the authorizations he signed: "Respecting the legislation and the environment, we will continue to map our wealth for the good of Brazil and our people."
The Federal Public Ministry in Amazonas opened an investigation to analyze the case.
#43
In the worst auction since the opening of the oil sector in the country, the government sold only 5 of the 92 areas for exploration and production offered to the market this Thursday (7).
The competition had the smallest number of participants and the lowest revenue among the 17 rounds of bidding of this type, started in 1999. The auction also failed to attract oil companies to the coast of Rio Grande do Norte, after clashes with environmentalists due to proximity to areas sensitive to biodiversity, such as the archipelagos of Fernando de Noronha and Atol das Rocas.
For specialists, the weak result reflects a lower appetite for risk in the sector, which has been focusing more and more on renewable energies and has not yet managed to explore the oil areas won in recent auctions in Brazil.
Only two companies submitted bids at the auction: the Anglo-Dutch Shell got four blocks alone and one in partnership with the Colombian Ecopetrol. All in the Santos Basin, where the areas considered less risky were located. In all, the government collected R$ 37.1 million. In inflation-adjusted values, it was the lowest collection in an ANP (National Agency for Petroleum, Gas and Biofuels) concession auction for exploratory areas.
#44
Members of the Brazilian government are apprehensive about the possible return of Donald Trump to the White House and are preparing for what one official described as a "greater potential for conflict." The list of concerns includes the climate agenda.
On Friday (1st), President Lula expressed his support for Democrat Kamala Harris and included the Republican in what he views as a resurgence of "Nazism and fascism with a different face" around the world. The good relationship between Lula and Joe Biden is unlikely to continue between Lula and Trump, and some setbacks are already seen as likely. One of these is a reversal in environmental cooperation. When he was president, Trump withdrew the U.S. from the Paris Agreement and repealed a series of environmental regulations and incentives for the energy transition.
Brazil is preparing to host the COP, the UN climate conference, in Belém in 2025 and was counting on financial and political support from the U.S. to make the event a platform for new financing mechanisms for the energy transition.
#45
Martinelli Santana, 50, has lost count of how many times she has felt unwell due to the heat at work. Her routine is to prepare packed lunches in the kitchen of a trailer in the Nova Holanda community, in the Maré Complex, in Rio de Janeiro.
What the cook feels is documented by experts: Nova Holanda is among the most affected favelas by heat islands in Maré.
Working by a stove during the hottest hours of the day, in a metal structure, is no easy task, she says. But she cannot stop.
Selling the meals is the main source of income for her household, where she lives with her 13-year-old son and her husband, who has back problems.
In addition to the health issues the heat brings, the rains are a concern in Maré, points out a study that analyzed climate risks and vulnerabilities in the set of favelas, home to 140,000 people.
The study by WayCarbon, a company focused on low-carbon economic transition solutions, in partnership with the NGO Redes da Maré, was launched at the end of 2023, containing warnings for the region.
The rains, although they relieve the heat, cause floods, and this scenario is expected to worsen with climate change
#46
The goal of zero deforestation in Brazil by 2030, proposed by President Lula (PT), is something that Environment Minister Marina Silva says she sees on the horizon.
Confident that the country will put an end to vegetation cutting, she has been working ahead to create a fund that rewards countries that maintain preserved tropical forests.
According to government calculations, Brazil could receive R$ 8 billion annually with the new mechanism, named the Tropical Forests Forever Fund.
"There's a very interesting difference compared to the Amazon Fund, which is payment for results. Tropical Forests Forever is a global fund. The Amazon Fund is just for the Amazon," she says. "It's a way to reward those who protect."
The initiative is one of the contributions the country aims to present at COP30, the UN climate conference that will take place in Belém at the end of 2025. Brazil, says Marina, will also focus on the fair energy transition, a concept that underscores the disputes between rich and developing countries on the path to phasing out fossil fuels.
To improve responses to extreme events, the minister also advocates declaring a "climate emergency" in 1,942 vulnerable municipalities across the country.
"It's about moving from the logic of disaster management, as we have today, to the logic of climate risk management," she says. She developed the plan after the rains that killed 65 people in São Sebastião (SP), on the northern coast, in 2023, and reinforced the proposal after the tragedy, also caused by rains, in Rio Grande do Sul this year.
The idea is that these cities will have access to resources to carry out adaptation works and take preventive measures.
#47
Is the world ready to give up fossil fuels? The question is posed to Folha by Mukhtar Babayev, president of COP29, the UN (United Nations) climate conference to be held this year in Azerbaijan-one of the world's most important producers of oil and gas. The event's main goal is to formulate a new target for financing climate actions, but it also lives under an expectation: whether advances will be made regarding the historic agreement reached in December 2023.
At the last COP in Dubai, for the first time, the document with the final resolutions explicitly mentioned fossil fuels. Countries committed to building energy systems that move away from these polluting sources-or, as the text says, a "transition towards the end of fossil fuels." He argues that his country has already begun its transition, focusing on investment in green energy.
The COP in Baku, which precedes the edition Brazil is set to host in Belém in 2025, is taking place in a year surrounded by electoral tensions, especially with the possibility of Donald Trump winning the U.S. elections. "Elections have an influence on this process, but countries have already understood that it is time to advance with climate action," he says. Since being announced as president of the conference, he has been questioned for having held positions in the oil industry-he is now the country's Minister of Ecology-and for the COP initially not appointing any women to its leadership.
Recently, the NGO Humans Right Watch criticized the Azerbaijani regime under President Ilham Aliyev for the imprisonment of journalists and activists. In this context, the main mission of the COP in Baku is a new financing target, as the commitment agreed in 2009-$100 billion per year for developing countries-was met with delays by developed nations and is far short of the necessary resources.
#48

The United States will announce an integration of supply chains in critical minerals from Brazil and in energy transition, according to the American ambassador to the country, Elizabeth Bagley. Critical minerals are those essential for high-tech equipment, such as niobium, graphite (graphene), nickel, and rare earths.
"We will have a big announcement at the G20, at the leaders' summit in November, about critical minerals, infrastructure, and supply chain. Minister Haddad and Secretary Yellen are negotiating."
The announcement, planned to coincide with Brazil's presidency in the G20, is expected to generate tensions with China, which is engaged in a technological cold war with the US and is vying with Washington for the supply of these minerals.
In the year that marks the bicentennial of bilateral relations between Brazil and the US, the ambassador highlights the role of President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (PT) in regional diplomacy, with pressures for dictator Nicolás Maduro to ensure a fair election in Venezuela, and globally - as a leader of the so-called Global South.
"[Lula] has to criticize because he has more power over Maduro than anyone else. Guyana is also a problem, and he has been very good on this issue, very assertive against the [threat of Venezuelan invasion in Essequibo]. We are working together on these issues," she says.
#49
In 2025, Brazil will have a deficit of 532,000 professionals in different technological areas. This number is influenced by the energy transition, which requires skills to deal with the decarbonization of the industry and electrified mobility, for example.
The projection, part of a survey by Brasscom (Association of Information Technology and Communication Companies and Digital Technology), has been used by Ford to explain its investments in local workforce training.
The American company is not alone in this endeavor. Automakers, suppliers, and startups have been developing training programs to not only train young workers but also attract talent.
Gi Group Holding, a multinational focusing on labor market studies, interviewed 6,700 automotive industry professionals in 11 countries. The aim was to find out which competencies are most coveted by their companies.
In Brazil, 53% of those surveyed said they wanted a workforce that knows how to deal with electric vehicle technologies. The global average was 35.1%. Knowledge to work with AI (artificial intelligence) and machine learning was mentioned by 40% of respondents in the country - again above the average (33.6%).
"The deficit was already expected, but it was exacerbated due to the modernization of vehicles, which received safety features and autonomous systems," says Djansen Alexandre Dias, manager of the industry division at Gi Group Holding.
#50
The project for Brazil's largest thermal power plant in Caçapava (SP) has become the target of protests by residents, politicians, and environmental organizations in the Vale do Paraíba region, who fear the impacts on air quality and water supply in the region. On Thursday (31), the Federal Court of São Paulo suspended the licensing process for the power plant, responding to a request from the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office.
The public hearing to assess the project was scheduled for Thursday (1st) and faced protests from residents over the weekend. "We know that people are concerned about the possibility of a thermal power plant being installed here in Caçapava. I am too!" wrote Mayor Pétala Lacerda (Republicans) on Friday (26), announcing that she will go to Brasília in February to try to stop the project.
On Saturday (27), the Paraíba do Sul River Basin Committee issued a statement expressing concern about the project. "The committee wants to make it clear that it recognizes the considerable risks to water security and quality in our basin," they wrote. The protests against the project also recall the commitments made by Brazil to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The country has positioned itself as a leader in the energy transition process, becoming one of the themes of the new industrialization policy of the PT government. "We are in a valley; it is not feasible to have a power plant of this size in the city. Caçapava doesn't want this," says Councilwoman Dandara Gissoni (PSD), who attended COP28 in Dubai to seek support against the project.
#51
Lula says he will propose a reform of international institutions during the G20 Presidency. The president also intends to use the Brazilian mandate to renegotiate the debt of poor countries.
President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (PT) stated on Thursday (23) that the Brazilian presidency of the G20 will focus on three main discussions, one of them being the possibility of reforming the global governance system.
Lula also mentioned that another topic receiving attention during his term is the issue of inequality, particularly the debt of the world's poorest countries, in addition to energy transition. "It is not possible for the Bretton Woods institutions, World Bank, IMF [International Monetary Fund], and so many other financial institutions to continue operating as if nothing were happening in the world, as if everything were resolved," he said.
"Many times institutions lend money not with the aim of saving the country borrowing the money but to pay off debt, and not to produce a productive asset, demonstrating that there is no contribution to saving the lives of countries," added the president.
Lula participated in the installation meeting of the National G20 Commission at the Planalto Palace. Brazil will assume the presidency of the bloc, which brings together the world's 19 largest economies, plus the European Union and the African Union, on December 1st. The Brazilian mandate will last until November 30th of the next year
#52
A special Senate committee has filed a bill to regulate the low-carbon hydrogen market in the country, providing incentives for the sector, prohibiting water exploration in conflict areas, and focusing on achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement.
The project defines the different types of low-carbon hydrogen, creates a development program for the activity, and provides a national policy for the area.
The regularization of the activity is seen by the government as an important step towards the energy transition.
During Jair Bolsonaro's government, Brazil moved away from achieving the goals agreed in Paris, which forecast the reduction of greenhouse gas production. President Lula has reiterated in speeches that the country will comply with them.
The proposal has created a low-carbon hydrogen development program, which should act as a way of encouraging the sector's activities through the transfer of funds for a maximum period of ten years.
The resources would come from the pre-salt, the Energy Development Account, and the Union Budget itself, in addition to financing.
#53
For those who are used to this newspaper taking shots at the current government, the first Folha editorial, on Monday (22), was a surprise. In "The Amazon and the Heat", this newspaper wrote that "it makes no sense to open fossil fuel extraction fronts" and that the country "does not need to hit the brakes on its own development to mitigate the climate crisis, just redirect it". Ibama's decision to reject oil extraction at the mouth of the Amazon "indicates that a switch has been turned". Lula 3 has finally scored one, it's what the reader can conclude from the reading. The curious thing was to see the rest of the country shouting the opposite, during the course of the week, including the high ranks of the PT (Workers' Party) government.
Marina Silva was belittled by Congress. The Minister of Mines and Energy declared that the country's environmental ambassador is Lula, not his colleague. Prime Minister Arthur Lira took the opportunity to corner the Planalto, letting a kind of anti-environmental vendetta run in the Chamber. Attributions of the Ministries of Environment and Indigenous Peoples were carved out in the Interim Measure for the reconfiguration of the Executive. As a bonus, the House has resumed an unreasonable loosening regarding the protection of the Atlantic Forest and voted on the urgency of a project on the timeframe for land demarcations, which overrides the trial in the Brazilian Federal Supreme Court.
Marina shouted that international resources and the European Union-Mercosul agreement, among other initiatives, would dwindle with this kind of dismantling of the environmental agenda. It was only on Saturday (27) that Folha heard voices from the market who said exactly the same thing.
The media preferred to spend the week reporting the cracks of Lula 3. The energy transition is a concern, but only until page 2. The newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo, in an editorial, wrote that "the environmental issue has become an ideological trench" and that the exploration of the Amazon region "should not be a taboo". The discussion, however, is not limited to a well on the equatorial margin, but to all fossil fuel exploitation. The technological race, boosted by artificial intelligence, promises to accelerate the obsolescence of oil, said the creator of ChatGPT. While France prohibits short-distance flights and shareholders embarrass Shell executives, in London, the president of Petrobras philosophizes that setting up offshore wind farms, for the Brazilian company, is like playing with Playmobil pieces.
Shallow debate, shallow solutions. On Thursday (25), headlines lashed at the government's package to subsidize economy cars, but few were those who adhered to the environmental incongruity of the measure. The most widely read was about which models would be cheaper.
If the switch has been turned, as the Folha editorial says, it seems clear that the environmental agenda will only start moving in this country after a great deal of pushing.
FOR GERMAN EYES ONLY
Champion of complaints from readers in the last week, the column "I was surprised by a possible Nazi salute", by Giovana Madalosso, gave rise to the publication of an Erramos (Errata) article, as it is said internally in the newspaper: "Folha was wrong to associate property in Santa Catarina with Nazism ". The newspaper took almost a week to verify the content of the article, in which the writer describes and classifies the roof of a house with the inscription "Heil" in a city inside the state (SC) as Nazi. Heil is a common surname in the region, which has been passed on from families to roads and trades over time. Since the 19th century, when the first German immigrants arrived in the country, according to one of the messages sent. There is a considerable mismatch between stories and meanings.
In its 'repair' article, Folha recalls that it had already corrected the information in the column through an Erramos (Errata) on the same Sunday (21) of the publication of the article on the website: "It is incorrect to state that the Heil inscription on the roof of the properties is 'very likely' a reference to a Nazi salute". The "very likely" was replaced by "possibly" in the article, which fueled new criticism.
The episode illustrates one of the many open wounds in the country infected by the extreme discourse of social networks and public agents. Instead of working for moderation, they are filled with likes and votes. Even before the contested column was made public, a reader from Joinville was already complaining to the ombudsman about many heavy comments made in articles related to Santa Catarina and Paraná. It is the same hatred that springs from insults and threats against Madalosso, which cannot be mistaken for fair criticism.
Nor does it help that Folha is not open to debate. The newspaper ignored comments about the episode on its traditional channel, the Readers' Panel. Leaving the task to social media is the same as surrendering to the beatings.
#54
Actress Laila Zaid has started using satire and irony to popularise climate change discussions on social networks. Laila is known for her roles in TV productions such as Malhação [Working Out] and Orgulho e Paixão [Pride and Passion], both ran by the Globo Network; and, more recently, Netflix series Todo Dia a Mesma Noite [Every Day the Same Night]. She claims that humour is good way to sensitize Brazilians - who are all 'far too busy just trying to survive', as she puts it.
'Average Brazilians still fail to grasp the ABCs of climate change. How can I talk about decarbonisation, energy transition, or preservation when people still get confused when referring to Indigenous peoples? Many Brazilians still call them "Indians", or "tribes". I think humour could help us develop a new culture', she adds.
Laila says that she has inherited a close relationship with nature from her family. She started working on socio-environmental topics during a project she ran with public schools in Rio de Janeiro, using theatre techniques and tools. When working in soap operas, plays, and films, she was often considered an annoying 'tree hugger' by her castmates.
Among the general public, however, she only became known as a socio-environmental communicator after she launched her children's book The Superhero Handbook: The Onset of a Sustainable Revolution in 2021. Since then, she has been sharing more and more content on sustainability on social media.
'During the pandemic, we moved to a community in the middle of nowhere, where we developed a forestry school with a wonderful group of educators. And when I started talking about it on my social networks, I realised that there was a demand for this type of content', she recalls.
'People wanted to know what they could do in their own lives: fast and easy behavioural changes that were more aligned with the environment. At that stage, I understood that I was becoming sort of a bridge.'
Today, Laila has almost 300,000 followers on Instagram, and close to 190,000 on TikTok. She discusses topics ranging from the excessive list of school supplies requested by her children's school to oil exploration at the Amazon River delta. She also makes fun of the reality of social networks, playing a blogger who promotes sustainability in a rather misconstrued way.
The posts that generate the most impact, she says, are those that manage to link the climate crisis to financial or health issues. 'Humans lack the cognitive capacity to deal with distant threats, so we have to bring problems as close as possible to our reality', she explains.
#55
Google's colorful offices in São Paulo are located on Faria Lima, an avenue that is a symbol of the country's financial universe and needs no introduction. If it is easy to imagine the stereotype of a Farialimer and its social and political pretensions, the technology giant does not seem to fit right into the region's design. The gang struggles on bicycles and scooters in an attempt to emulate Silicon Valley, but the cycle lane eventually ends. On the edge of this flat land, the heart-stroked megalopolis remains.
Google is on Faria Lima, mounted on a glass mastodon, perhaps because in another part of the city its modernity, the break time lattes, and the beanbags in the garden would not work. Or, worse, they would offend. Working in the comfort zone is the desire of any company. Last week, Google showed that it sees no limits in the endeavor to stay in it. A Folha's article showed that, on the eve of the voting of PL 2630 (Fake News Bill), which tightens the regulation of social networks, the search engine currently used by 97% of the population gave wide visibility to a kind of editorial on its own blog, criticizing the initiative.
Also according to the article, the NetLab of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) found that content links opposing the bill received privileged treatment in searches. Google denies it, but it seems clear that its system boosted news that favored it. What happened is serious, and here the discussion is not the content of the bill, its flaws, or its virtues.
All one needs to do is change the object of the dispute to understand the magnitude of the problem. Today it is legislation that affects the company, tomorrow it could be a candidate. The company has the right and the duty to express itself in the discussion of a law that targets its operation, but it cannot interfere in the flow of communication, or manipulate the news and even Congress.
Google is also not a vehicle for the press. If it were, it would be held accountable for what it does or fails to do, as it happens with this newspaper. By the way, this is exactly what Google does not want to be by fighting the Bill. Folha has legal responsibility for hundreds of journalists and this demands control and professionalism. Social networks don't want the burden of controlling millions of pseudo-journalists. They cannot, therefore, have the bonus of publishing editorials as if they were regular journalistic content.
It is undeniable that the 8th of January and the wave of violent acts in schools generated a stir in the debate. It is also difficult to disagree with the assessment that the bill embraces too many fronts. None of this, however, diminishes the urgency of a less wild-west-like internet.
Among the many opinions collected in recent days by the press, one of the most sensible was published in an article by the newspaper Valor Econômico. When commenting that the Federal Supreme Court will probably act if Congress does not vote on the new legislation, Ricardo Campos, from the University of Frankfurt, predicted another possibility: "If this bill does not pass now, in two years we will have an even tougher text in discussion in Congress. For that, all you need is a new crisis like the massacre in schools or the 8th of January". Google can do almost anything, but guaranteeing that this won't happen again is like believing that Faria Lima's world is round and doesn't end around the corner.
#56
The new Rio de Janeiro Municipal Secretary for Environment and Climate grew up amidst a number of urban problems affecting her city. Since last month, it has been her mission to address and solve them. Born in the Praça Seca district, in the Loteamento community in western Rio, Tainá de Paula says she realised very early on that discussions on sustainability only took place far from where she lived.
'Thirty years have passed, and water is still a key topic in the favela where I came from. We have perhaps one of the highest rainfall rates in Latin America, but there is still no wider discussion about this', she says. Tainá is an architect, and was elected city councillor in 2020, representing the PT party.
In her opinion, the root cause of this problem is racism, which translates into lack of investment in peripheral areas.
'Over the past 10 years, Brazil has lost thousands of lives due to negligence and the absence of serious climate change mitigation policy', she points out, citing the recent tragedy in the area of São Sebastião, in the state of São Paulo, and the heavy rains in Petrópolis, in the state of Rio.
For Rio, she adds, one of the priorities is urban waste management, which, according to her, is the root cause for 70 per cent of all floods. Waste is also responsible for emissions resulting from improper disposal.
In addition to increased funding, Tainá mentions other potential solutions: providing environmental education, and strengthening local communities' role as guardians of the environment. Evictions or forced displacements, on the other hand, should not be part of their work.
'Some areas could become ecologically sustainable communities, building on relocation efforts within the same area, avoiding constructions on very steep slopes, but rather favouring areas that enable architectural and engineering solutions', she explains.
'It is very important to bear in mind that the rich continue living on the slopes, as they have access to geotechnical and engineering solutions'.
#57
In January, during a visit by German Prime Minister Olaf Scholz to Brasília, President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (PT) said he hoped to conclude the trade agreement between the European Union (EU) and Mercosur by mid-2023.
The treaty, proposed more than 20 years ago, was only signed in June 2019, during the Bolsonaro government, but it was never ratified, due to a series of obstacles, in particular Brazil's setbacks in the socio-environmental agenda.
For the German MEP Anna Cavazzini, vice-chair of the delegation for relations with Brazil and chair of the committee on the internal market, before the text becomes effective, it will need a revision that guarantees stricter commitments with the environment.
In her view, the terms, written two decades ago, are outdated and, as they are non-binding, do not guarantee actions aligned with the reduction of deforestation.
"It has really non binding, suspended, sustainability standards that at the end will not have a great effect. So we need to adjust this and put sustainability and the fight against deforestation in the core of the agreement and only then can we advance", she says.
The delegation, which is chaired by Portuguese MEP José Manuel Fernandes, from the Social Democratic Party, plans to visit Brazil in May.
In the interview with Folha, Cavazzini, however, demonstrates optimism in relation to other legislation recently discussed in the European Parliament, such as the new regulation that prohibits the entry of commodities linked to deforestation.
The legislation, which has the potential to affect exports from Brazil, rejects a series of products -meat, soy, wood, rubber, cocoa, coffee and palm oil- from areas that have been deforested, even with legal permission, after December 31, 2020.
"This new regulation is really a kind of a revolution, if you think like that, because for the first time we have rules in the European Union that look at supply chains and will at the end prohibit imports from goods from deforested areas. This is a big, big step forward in the global fight against deforestation."
Although the regulation offers protection to the Amazon, the Atlantic Forest and the Chaco, typical forest biomes in South America, it was criticized by environmentalists for excluding the Cerrado from the agreement.
In this and other discussions that are fundamental to policies against climate change, says Cavazzini, the challenge of the green deputies is to show that "the future can only be claimed in full", without dichotomy between economy and sustainability.
"If we don't protect the climate, we also destroy our economy and the future of our planet", she points out.
#58
In Lula's address to COP27 (2022 UN Climate Change Conference in Egypt), shortly after his election, he made it very clear that the climate agenda will play a key role in Brazil's diplomatic relations.
'I would like to say to you all that Brazil is back. Brazil is back to resume its ties with the world', he said at the event, in which he also suggested holding an Amazon Summit Meeting, and put Brazil forward as a candidate to host COP30 in 2025.
For Adriana Abdenur, executive director of Plataforma Cipó [Vine Platform, in a free translation], a research institute focused on climate, governance, and peace issues, hosting such events is an important part of rebuilding Brazil's foreign policy agenda - a priority for the new government.
Plataforma Cipó also coordinated and published a study titled 'Climate and International Strategy: New Directions for Brazil'. The final paper - presented to Lula at COP27 - results from consultations with 70 players from different sectors of society, including groups that traditionally do not have much voice in foreign policy discussions, such as women, Black and Indigenous peoples, the LGBTQIA+ community, and a number of institutions outside the Brasília-Rio de Janeiro-São Paulo axis.
Ms Abdenur integrated the Government Transition Team's Foreign Policy Working Group. Among other priorities, she highlights the urgent need for Brazil to ratify the Escazú Agreement, which aims to protect environmental defenders. Brazil signed the agreement in 2018, but has not ratified it yet.
Another pressing matter, she says, is the need to design climate justice policies The concept of climate justice builds on the idea that climate change disproportionately affects certain social groups, and, among other impacts, helps to perpetuate so-called climate racism. Both concepts, very much in vogue in international discussions, need to be applied to the Brazilian reality too, she adds.
Ms Abdenur also believes that Brazil's G20 presidency, starting in December 2023, offers Brazil a great opportunity to lead discussions on sustainable development and food security - a topic that has gained even more relevance since the war started in Ukraine.
'Brazil has historically played a very proactive role in this area. Therefore, it could help the G20 go beyond discussions on the financial crisis and the indebtedness of vulnerable economies, focusing on a more substantive agenda', she adds. She also advocates the need to expand civil society's engagement in these discussions. In Lula's first week in office, Brazil's Foreign Ministry announced the creation of a Social Participation and Diversity Office, responding directly to foreign secretary Mauro Vieira.
#59
"To hell with your sustainability. My people are dying," said Pakistani activist Ayisha Siddiqa, 24, in a speech at the Climate Week in New York last September. In the months prior to the event, the country where she was born, in a tribal community in the north, suffered from severe floods that left more than 1,700 dead.
" What was a climate disaster, natural disaster, then became a healthcare disaster. Then it became a women and gender issue and now all of that. It is a hunger crisis", says Siddiqa to Folha when asked about the current situation in Pakistan.
The activist also took part in the World Economic Forum, in Davos, in January, and questioned the fact that there is a vulnerable group that has been systematically left out of the debate on the climate crisis: citizens of unstable governments.
"Syria, Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, that whole belt that we now consider like the aftermath of the War on Terror is experiencing a climate disaster like no other. And people are not talking about it", highlights her, who moved to the United States when she was a child.
"They don't have the education, the technical language, the political stability, the court systems, you name it. They don't even have that to cry out, 'hey, we are experiencing climate change!'."
For her, who is co-founder of the organization Polluters Out, through which she teaches a course for training young leaders, called Fossil Free University, new generations have already been able to stimulate debate within their homes.
However, she says, they still need to be able to effectively influence changes in the systems.
"We need the tools that our opponents have, which we don't have. We need lawyers, we need financiers. My prediction is the youth movement is headed straight to tackle the fossil fuel industry, that needs to happen", she says.
Protesting against delays in tackling climate change caused by "the laziness of our politicians," as Siddiqa puts it, fatally brings anxiety to young people, she admits.
"Experiencing climate anxiety and pessimism actually is not a signal of mental incapacity, or illness, or a problem. It actually means you are sane. Accepting and also articulating that pessimism means that you are attuned to reality as well."
#60
This year, the country reached the lowest number of beaches classified as good in six years, points out a survey carried out since 2016 by Folha in the summer, which begins this Wednesday (21).
Only 29% of the 1,334 spots monitored from November 2021 to October 2022 were clean in all measurements, against an average of 36% in the same previous periods. The account does not include 2020 when monitoring suffered a blackout due to the pandemic.
The total number of bad beaches also increased in the same comparison (from an average of 10% to 13%). The numbers of regular (26%) and terrible (16%) locations remained at the same level but increased compared to last year. The remaining points were not measured (16%).
The deterioration is observed more than two years after the approval of the new legal framework for basic sanitation, which encouraged the participation of private companies in services and defined 2033 as a target for the universalization of drinking water and sewage collection and treatment. For Luana Pretto, president of the Trata Brasil Institute, it will only be possible to see the practical effects of the law on the environment and on the quality of life in two or three years - supposing there are no repeals signaled by Lula's transition team (PT), seen by her as a setback.
#61
Brazil entered the COP27 under the government of Jair Bolsonaro (PL) and saw the president-elect Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (PT) gain the international stage, with bilateral meetings and an environmental transition team active from the very beginning of the UN conference for climate change
COP27 saw the future government take the lead over climate issues from the current administration, which always relegated the problem.
Brazilian diplomatic action is perceived as more discreet at COP27, according to observers interviewed by Folha. The country, in general, acted in line with other groups - such as the G77 + China and the one formed with Argentina and Uruguay.
One possibility suggested for this is the process of change of government. Another point that has been raised is the absence of leadership in the Brazilian team, with limited participation from the Minister of the Environment Joaquim Leite, head of the delegation.
On Friday (18th), he spent the morning practicing diving, and, at night, he left the city of the conference, before the closing of the event.
#62
Of the US$2 trillion being invested worldwide in clean energy in 2024, 85% is concentrated in developed countries. Only 15% is in the rest of the world, which has 65% of the global population.
This concentration in wealthy countries is highlighted by data provided by the International Energy Agency and is seen as the biggest issue by the agency's executive director, Fatih Birol, in energy sector discussions.
He sees a need to accelerate projects in Brazil, particularly in green hydrogen, warning of the risk of two worlds being created with separate energy systems-one clean and the other dirty-but both suffering the consequences of global warming.
One of the most promising technologies for global decarbonization is green hydrogen, in which Brazil could have a major advantage due to its abundance of clean energy. Birol states that the country needs to speed up investments in this area.
The warning comes amid increasing investments of this kind elsewhere.
#66
The Chamber of Deputies approved, this Tuesday (11), the taxation of international purchases up to US$ 50, the so-called "tax on blouses," within the main text of the Mover bill, which creates a program to encourage the decarbonization of cars. The proposal, called by critics a "jabuti" -when something is inserted into a project that is unrelated to its original theme- ends the tax exemption for such imports.
The import tax exemption benefits well-known online stores such as Shopee and Shein. Today, products up to US$ 50 sold on these sites are already taxed by ICMS, which is state-level and has rates ranging from 17% to 19%. For cheaper products, the import tax will be 20% on the value, according to the project approved this Tuesday. For items above US$ 50, the proposed tax is 60%, but an intermediate range was also created, between US$ 50 and US$ 3,000, which will have a US$ 20 discount on taxation. To become law, the project still needs to be sanctioned by President Lula (PT), and there is an agreement for this to happen, according to government base deputies.
Ending the exemption is seen by many as unpopular, as it affects purchases made by thousands of people, which could bring political damage in an election year.
#63
Brazilian Senate Approves Taxing International Purchases of up to $50 at 20%
The Senate approved yesterday the imposition of a 20% tax on international purchases of up to $50, which are currently exempt. The measure affects platforms like Shopee and Shein.
The provision to end the exemption had been inserted by the Chamber into the Mover bill. In the Senate, it was removed by the rapporteur, displeasing the president of the Chamber, Arthur Lira. This Wednesday (5), it was reinserted into the text.
Mover, a decarbonization program for the automotive sector, was previously approved without the tax. Later, the senators voted on the taxation and reinserted it into the bill in a symbolic vote. As the text underwent changes, it will have to return to the Chamber.
During the proceedings in the House, the Lula government and deputies had reached an agreement on the taxation.
The text on Mover received other provisions, the so-called "jabutis" - one related to the oil sector and two new fiscal regimes for alcohol fuels and bicycles.
The taxation of low-value purchases is seen as unpopular by politicians. Those who defend it argue that the current exemption causes market distortion and harms domestic industry.
#64
On Tuesday night (28), the Chamber of Deputies approved a project that taxes purchases up to $50 on foreign websites, such as Asian platforms Shein, Shopee, and Aliexpress, with a 20% rate.
Currently, purchases up to this amount are exempt from the Import Tax, a point of contention that has dragged on for over a year among national companies, the platforms, and President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's (PT) government.
The tax was included in the bill that creates Mover (Green Mobility and Innovation Program), a government program for the decarbonization of the automotive sector. The vote on Tuesday was symbolic, with no vote count.
Now, the text will go to the Senate and is expected to be considered in the House this Wednesday (29).
#65
The pressure to show that the government is implementing new projects to generate growth, combined with the fiscal constraints of the Executive, may revive creative financial alternatives to expand the BNDES (National Bank for Economic and Social Development) as seen in the past.
This is the perception of economists who follow the institution and the trajectory of public policy. The NIB plan (New Industry Brazil) reinforced this reading.
BNDES will manage R$ 250 billion ($ 51billion) in projects focused on productivity, innovation, digitization, and decarbonization in the national industry. A significant portion of the funds comes from funds, and subsidies and non-reimbursable transfers (without the expectation of return) are already foreseen in a portion of the disbursements.
The director of Planning and Project Structuring at the bank, economist Nelson Barbosa, who was in previous governments of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff, both from the PT, states that there is no "return to the past."
#66
Petrobras has announced its new fuel price policy, in which it unlinks gasoline and diesel readjustments from the values practiced in the international market.
According to the company, the goal is to search for customers and the cost of opportunity, which would reduce expenses for customers. No reference has been fixed yet.
The state-owned company also communicated, shortly afterward, reductions in the prices of gasoline, diesel, and cooking gas, with immediate effect.
The liter of gasoline in the refineries of the state-owned company has dropped 12.6% (R$ 0.40 per liter), and that of diesel, 12.8% (R$ 0.44 per liter). Cooking gas now costs 21.3% less.
The transfer to the consumer still depends on the commercial policies of distributors and service stations.
In a statement, the president of the state company, Jean-Paul Prates, talked about greater flexibility to dispute markets with competitors.
He denied government interference: "There is no intervention in the sense of saying 'set the price like this'". The company's shares rose 2.5%.
Oil and gas specialists recommend caution, as the change leaves the market without parameters and could have negative impacts on importers and on biofuel production.
#67
Amid a historic drought in Brazil, the ONS (National Electric System Operator) recommended to the Ministry of Mines and Energy this Thursday (19) that daylight saving time be reinstated. The recommendation will now be debated by other government bodies but will not be implemented before the end of the electoral period, on October 27. The measure was communicated in an extraordinary meeting of the CMSE (Electric Sector Monitoring Committee) in Rio de Janeiro.
According to Minister Alexandre Silveira (Mines and Energy), who attended the meeting, the committee confirmed an "indication" for the return of daylight saving time. The minister said a decision could be made within ten days. Implementing the measure would depend on a presidential decree. By moving clocks forward one hour, the initiative would aim to relieve pressure on the electrical system amid the drought, which is challenging the sector. Silveira highlighted the demand for energy between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m., when solar generation ceases and there is a need for more intense use of thermal plants, which are more expensive. The introduction of daylight saving time would aim to "de-stress" the system, especially at this time.
"We don't have a problem with energy generation, thanks to well-planned efforts, but we do have a moment in the day, a peak energy demand from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m., when we need to dispatch almost the entire thermal plant fleet. We know this costs more and stresses the system," said Silveira.
#68
The current Brazilian water crisis enters a new level this Wednesday (1st), when a new tariff becomes effective. It will remain in effect until April 2022 and will increase the electricity bill by 6.78%. The social tariff for low-income citizens will not be affected.
Called "Hydric Scarcity", the banner advertised by the National Electric Energy Agency tries to combat the increase in costs resulting from the prolonged shortage of water, passing them on to the consumer, and avoiding rationing.
On TV, Minister Bento Albuquerque (Mines and Energy) admitted that the situation had worsened and asked for a reduction in consumption.
With the biggest water crisis in 91 years, the hydroelectric plants lost space in the offer to the more expensive thermal ones.
The import of energy and the use of thermal plants will increase expenses of R$ 13.2 billion from September to November. For economist André Braz, from FGV, the new tariff will raise consumer inflation by 0.3 percentage point to 0.9% this month. The higher costs indicate the need to reduce consumption by overtaxing it.
With one more, the government avoids readjusting the level 2 red banner by 50%, affecting fewer consumers and sparing the popularity of Jair Bolsonaro.
#69
The current energy crisis in Brazil will likely cost consumers more than R$3.6 billion (US$ 695 million) in additional costs to the electricity bill in order to avoid a blackout, estimates Abraceel (Brazilian Association of Energy Traders).
According to a statement from the National Electric System Operator (ONS), almost all the resources of the hydroelectric plants are expected to be exhausted by November, the end of the drought period.
The cost of keeping the thermal plants on and preventing the collapse of the hydroelectric system until the rainy season, at the end of the year, will be equal to the R$ 3.632 billion spent from January to May, estimates Abraceel. The amount is transferred to the consumer through the tariff flags.
"It is the most serious crisis in a century," says Reginaldo Medeiros, the association's executive president.
"There is not much to be done, besides using all available resources to avoid rationing. It will be more expensive, but nobody wants to be without electricity," he says.
The ONS raised the load forecast to a parameter considered more realistic and warned that the drought that hit the reservoirs could push the country's power generation capacity to the limit.
#70
President Jair Bolsonaro (no party) asked that the population turn off a light at home to save energy, this Thursday (26). He said hydroelectric dams could stop working because of the water crisis and said the government is not raising prices "out of malice."
The Minister of Mines and Energy, Bento Albuquerque, announced on Wednesday (25) a discount plan on the electricity bill for residential and business consumers that are voluntarily willing to save energy.
Planalto Palace advisers estimate that the adoption of rationing at this time would further damage Bolsonaro in his campaign for re-election.
To cover energy generation costs due to the water crisis, the government needs to activate the thermal plants, which produce more expensive energy. These additional amounts are passed on to consumers through the so-called tariff levels - today, the red, more expensive, is in effect.
The full transfer of energy cost for distributors and analysts will raise electricity bills by 15.2%.
https://www1.folha.uol.com.br/internacional/en/business/2021/08/bolsonaro-says-that-hydroelectric-plants-may-stop-working-and-appeals-to-brazilians-to-save-energy.shtml
#71
The Lula (PT) government reaches a year and a half in office with a consolidated discourse in defense of oil exploration.
One of the main arguments is that the generated resources are essential to finance the energy transition. Despite this, members of three ministries acknowledge that there is no formal plan to use the money for decarbonization.
The defense of oil as a financier of the energy transition appeared in Lula's latest interviews, who endorsed the discourse of government members, such as Alexandre Silveira, Minister of Mines and Energy.
The ministry cites the Pre-Salt Social Fund, created to gather oil resources and allocate them, among other purposes, to mitigating climate change.
However, the TCU (Federal Court of Accounts) shows that, after 14 years, the R$ 146 billion collected were not applied for this purpose and were even used to reduce public debt.
Environmentalists are skeptical of the official discourse and see a contradiction between the government's internal stance and the promises in international debates.
#72
In early October, Wang Chuanfu, global president of BYD, visited Brazil and in Camaçari, 50 kilometers from Salvador, laid the foundation stone for the industrial complex that his conglomerate will establish in the country.
About two months earlier, when the trip was planned, the company still did not know the exact destination of the R$ 3 billion ($ 617 million) investment. It only knew it would come to Brazil, and the location would be in Bahia.
The conviction that the industrial complex would be established, regardless of the political impasse with the area occupied by Ford from 2001 to 2021 and the exact location, signals the importance the company places on gaining market share in Brazil and, subsequently, in Latin America.
While European automakers and even Asian competitors spent the past few years arguing the impracticality of electric vehicles in Brazil, BYD is convinced that the country could become its second-largest market outside of China and the first outside of Asia, in that order.
The reading comes from a combination of conjunctural, structural, and cultural factors. The clean energy matrix, the Brazilian love for cars, the size of the Brazilian economy and its influence over Latin America, and the growing concern for the environment are at the core of the strategy.
#73 
The Brazilian government raised $2 billion on Monday (13) with its first sovereign issuance of sustainable bonds in the international market.
The initiative aimed to place the country on the map of economies that raise funds with a commitment to invest them in activities with the ESG seal (acronym for environmental, social, and governance best practices).
According to the Treasury, the return rate for investors was 6.5% per year, representing 181.9 basis points above the benchmark U.S. Treasury bond-the lowest level in new issuances in almost a decade.
Finance Minister Fernando Haddad stated that the result was quite significant. "The international market recognizes Brazil as if the country had an investment-grade. It is charging an interest rate comparable to Mexico, for example, which has an investment grade," he said.
The Treasury stated that the demand for the bonds "far exceeded" the issued volume, with the order book at $6 billion. The issuance was made at 98.572% of its face value.
#74
The expansion of the area of influence of the Itaipu hydroelectric plant on the Brazilian side has caused discomfort in the energy sector.
The region entitled to receive socio-environmental and infrastructure projects increased from 55 to 434 municipalities, increasing the spending to almost R$1 billion (US$193.9 million).
Experts question Itaipu's political and geopolitical use of the electricity bill money.
The expansion of the area and the robust budget support the creation of the "Itaipu Mais que Energia" program to serve all 399 municipalities in Paraná and another 35 in Mato Grosso do Sul.
People close to the PT (Workers' Party) say that the new general director of Itaipu, Enio Verri, was chosen to carry out a review of the plant's line of work, and should place it on the political scene.
In a statement, the hydroelectric plant affirmed that "Itaipu's mission is to generate quality electrical energy, with social and environmental responsibility, contributing to sustainable development in Brazil and Paraguay", and that all efforts are guided by this premise.
#75
The lack of standardization to define what a "green" (environmentally sustainable) enterprise is has worried investors whose goals are to allocate resources to this type of operation.
Today, investments that advertise themselves as green and sustainable are certified by private consulting firms that have their own non-uniform criteria.
The need to have more solid criteria to define which portfolios and investment funds actually follow ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) aspects has been one of the main agendas at meetings of businessmen and investors committed to the environmental issue, including the federal government.
One example is the most recently launched sustainable investment fund in the country, according to Anbima (Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Market Entities). It was created by the management company SulAmérica, in partnership with the bank Itaú, in March and, in order to obtain the "sustainable" label, it had to send documents to Anbima to support the classification. From then on, the association has analyzed the papers and certified the arguments.
This information from SulAmérica, however, is based on a report commissioned from KPMG, a private consultancy that classifies companies according to ESG practices. According to KPMG, the survey is carried out by analyzing public information from sustainability reports, reference forms, governance and investor relation documents from companies in 11 sectors of the economy.
#76
On Monday 10 April, Brazil nominated scientist Thelma Krug as its candidate to chair the IPCC (UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) from 2023 to 2028.
If she is elected, Dr Krug, who is already an IPCC vice-chair, will be the first woman and the first Latin American representative to head the panel. Elections will take place during a plenary session in July.
Dr Krug has a background in Mathematics, and has collaborated with the IPCC since 2002. She explains that, based on all that we have learnt and how climate science has evolved, there is an unequivocal link between human enterprise and global warming. However, this was not the main reason that drove her to put her name forward: rather, it was the commitment of thousands of IPCC authors, and the encouragement she received from her 10-year-old grandson, Luca.
Citing the latest IPCC report, released in late March, she highlights the need for change to involve all sectors of society. The report points out that our current actions do not match the urgency of our need to prevent further temperature rises.
"We need quick, deep, and sustained reductions in [greenhouse gas] emissions in order to limit global warming to 1.5 °C, or at least keep it under 2 °C", says Dr Krug, who stresses that the choices we are making now will have a direct impact on the sustainability of our future.
"The cost of action will be far less than the cost of inaction when the entire planet starts suffering from climate impacts caused by higher temperatures."
In view of the increased volume and speed of scientific production on climate change, she advocates that the IPCC should produce shorter and more frequent reports. She adds that, during its next cycle, the IPCC will also produce a special paper on cities.
"Cities contribute to approximately 90 per cent of all emissions if we consider their entire scope", she explains, building on her 37 years of experience at INPE (National Institute for Space Research), where she worked until 2019.
Dr Krug decided to resign from INPE when then-president Jair Bolsonaro (PL) accused the institute of manipulating deforestation data.
#77
Forecasted to be in operation for the 2014 World Cup, the VLT (light rail vehicle) that would connect Cuiabá to the neighboring city Várzea Grande began to be dismantled by the government of Mato Grosso. Six kilometers of tracks that had already been installed were taken out.
One of the biggest scandals among undelivered public civil construction projects in the country, construction has so far cost R$ 1.066 billion ($ 195 million), all in federal funds.
The trains that should be carrying passengers today share space with mountains of concrete, rebar, and rubber. Just the rails, there are 24 kilometers of steel imported from Poland.
According to Governor Mauro Mendes, another R$ 760 million ($148 million) would be needed to finish the project and put the VLT in operation.
Therefore, management stated that it decided to transform the site into a bus corridor, the BRT (Bus Rapid Transit), which will cost R$ 480.5 million ($93 million) to state coffers, not counting the R$ 200 million ($39 million) needed for the purchase of 54 articulated buses.
"It is a cheap, modern, and sustainable form of transport, with lower fares for users. The VLT is a child of the corruption system. This matter is already closed", said the governor.
#78

The US will announce its intention to inject resources into the Amazon Fund, according to the text of the joint communiqué that was negotiated between the two countries on Thursday night (9).
The announcement should be made after the conversation between President Lula and Joe Biden, who will meet at the White House this Friday (10).
The communiqué confirms the defense of the environment and investments in sustainable energy as the main axes of the relaunch of relations between Brazil and the USA, after years of cooling off during the Biden and Jair Bolsonaro governments.
The text will also express condemnation of political extremism, and American support regarding the expansion of the UN Security Council and will also talk about the Ukraine War without a direct condemnation of Russia.
The Amazon Fund is the main fundraising initiative for the conservation of the Amazon and for combating deforestation in the area, funded by Norway and Germany, and, to a lesser extent, by Petrobras.
#79
The creation of a collaborative network, including more than 70 organizations in 14 countries, to monitor land use, promote sustainable management of natural resources, and combat climate change led to Brazilian Tasso Azevedo, 51, being recognized among the Social Innovators of the Year in Davos, in Switzerland. Co-founder and coordinator of MapBiomas, the forest engineer is one of the 16 socio-environmental leaders awarded for their innovative approach and potential global impact in a ceremony this Tuesday (17th) at the World Economic Forum. "The 2023 Social Innovators represent a generation of social and environmental change leaders who demonstrate that innovative models of cooperation and intersectoral action are essential to moving forward in the face of the complex challenges we face," said Hilde Schwab, president of the Schwab Foundation, when announcing the ones awarded.
The awards recognize social entrepreneurs, public sector managers, corporate leaders, and thinkers in four categories. The novelty in 2023 is the Collective Social Innovation category, in which Azevedo was awarded. He is also being considered for the future position of Climate Authority, one of the innovations of the new management of Marina Silva (Rede), at the Ministry of Environment and Climate Change. "This award will help us to gain even more credibility to expand our operations beyond the 14 countries where local partner networks already monitor transformations and land use", says Azevedo, finalist of the 2022 Social Entrepreneur Award, held for 18 years by Folha in partnership with Schwab. "We hope to reach Africa especially." Azevedo is the general coordinator of MapBiomas, which has Julia Shumbo, as the scientific coordinator, and Marcos Rosa, as the technical coordinator.
#80
Agricultural engineer Eduardo Assad has devoted his life to studying climate change impacts on agriculture. According to the SEEG (Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimate System), agriculture is the second main cause for Brazil's greenhouse gas emissions, accounting for approximately 27 per cent of the total. The number one cause is land use change, which includes deforestation.
Agriculture is also one of the sectors that have been most impacted by the climate crisis. I2008, Assad acted as one of the coordinators of a pioneering study titled 'Global Warming and the New Geography of Agricultural Production in Brazil', which estimated that Brazil would lose R$7.4 billion in its grain crops in 2020.
In this interview with Folha, Assad acknowledges that his colleagues and he were wrong in their projections. 'When we reached 2020, we realised that the loss was not 7 billion Brazilian reais, but rather 7 billion US dollars!', he says. 'The model worked, as it did show a trend - but that trend had been far too "optimistic".'
Assad worked as Technical Coordinator for Agricultural Zoning of Climate Risks at the Ministry of Agriculture for almost 15 years. He played an active role in the development of Brazil's Low-Carbon Agriculture policy, also known as the ABC Plan. In 2011, he was appointed Secretary for Climate Change and Environmental Quality at the Environment Ministry.
Assad points out that Brazilian investment in low-carbon agriculture is still too shy. 'The ABC Plan's R$5 billion correspond to 2 per cent of what is provided in rural credit; it is close to nothing', he says.
For Assad, Brazil also needs to pay more attention and allot more resources to family farming, in addition to diversifying agricultural production and fostering the bioeconomy.
'More than 50 per cent of all Brazilian farmers, that is, around 3.9 million people, live below the poverty line, and account for 6 per cent of the gross value of production; while less than 0.01 per cent of Brazilian farmers, that is, 25,000 people, account for 52 per cent of the gross value of production', he says.
Assad also criticises the tendency to minimise damages caused by climate change. 'In a country that faces serious challenges related to its internal debt and its production, we must be able to say how much we are losing.'
As for solutions, Assad notes that the financial sector has become more and more involved in sustainable agricultural practices. This does not mean that the financial sector is 'nice', he explains - they are simply following an international trend.
#81
Former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (PT) promoted national sovereignty, defended Petrobras and repeatedly talked in favor of job creation and the fight against hunger when he launched his pre-candidacy for the Presidency of the Republic this Saturday (7). Geraldo Alckmin (PSB) will be his vice president on the slate.
The PT sought to oppose the primary opponent in the dispute, President Jair Bolsonaro (PL), stating-without naming him by name-that he is authoritarian and attacks sovereignty, democracy, and institutions. He accused him of lying to hide his incompetence and of destroying what was achieved during the the Workers' party years in government.
The speech chose topics such as inflation, misery, and unemployment to harass Bolsonaro. With skyrocketing fuel prices and Petrobras' price policy challenges, Lula defended energy sovereignty and blamed the current government for dismantling the company.
PT also spoke in defense of the environment and the Amazon, with the transition to a new model of sustainable development, income distribution, investments in education, sanitation, and housing, the resumption of consumption, and the recognition of culture as an important sector.
The former president also recognized indigenous peoples, women, blacks, and the LGBTQIA+ population, parts of the electorate in which Bolsonaro has his highest rejection rates. In a nod to evangelical voters, he said that "?he who is unable to shed a single tear in the face of human beings rummaging through garbage in search of food, or of the more than 660,000 Brazilians killed by Covid but says he is a Christian, is not worthy of being called a ruler. He has no love for his neighbor".
#82
Sunday, July 17, was a busy day near the eastern entrance to the Xingu Indigenous Land, an area belonging to the Kisêdjê people, near Querência (MT). Early in the morning, it was already possible to hear the noise of the machines operating in the woods next to the reserve. In the afternoon, the concern was the fire. It had been advancing for three days, giving the firefighters a lot of work.
The images of deforestation and fire were captured by the drone of Kamikia Kisêdjê, 38, an indigenous photographer and filmmaker whose cameras monitor the perimeters. Two years ago, land bordering a grain farm began to be illegally deforested. Kamikia's photos and videos became evidence to justify calling the authorities.
The Indigenous Land in the Xingu is not connected to the national electricity system. Much of the supply depends on diesel generators, which operate only a few hours at night. An action with a drone, like this, is only possible thanks to an additional component, the supply of solar energy.
Currently, all 120 villages in the indigenous territory have some photovoltaic generation system, with plates and batteries, which guarantees energy supply during the day and most of the night, especially in the dry winter months in the Midwest.
At least 108 communities have systems in collective areas. In the others, it is possible to find private plaques, implanted by the families themselves.
#83
The United States' refusal to help Brazil with its nuclear submarine project led President Jair Bolsonaro to ask for support from Vladimir Putin. This was settled on his controversial February trip to Moscow but is now on hold due to the war in Ukraine.
Assistance with certifying the fuel to be used in the submarine's reactor and engineering issues led to technical missions from the Brazilian Navy to Washington to discuss cooperation. By 2018, it became clear that this would come to nothing.
Itamaraty, which participated jointly in the negotiation, decided to look for alternatives in view of the impact of the schedule. Putin's Russia, the second largest power in the field after the US, was a good candidate, despite already being in Western crosshairs due to the annexation of Crimea in 2014.
After conversations between the countries, Bolsonaro was invited and accepted to visit the Kremlin this year, when the Russian was already openly accused by the West of preparing the invasion of Ukraine - which took place a week after the Brazilian left Russia.
#84
Paraguay has scheduled its first auction to sell its energy on the free market in Brazil for this Friday (26th). The operation was agreed upon between the neighboring country's government and Minister Alexandre Silveira (Mines and Energy) as part of the deal that resolved the dispute over the Itaipu hydroelectric plant tariff. Regional energy integration is a longstanding and welcome goal in the sector, but specialists question the rush to hold the auction for two main reasons. First, Brazil does not currently need more energy, as there is an oversupply in the domestic market. Second, despite the agreement allowing the transaction under existing rules (read more below), in practice, the process requires legal revisions and technical adjustments that have not yet been made.
This is because, according to several electricity sector professionals consulted by the report, the only way for Paraguay to sell energy on the free market in Brazil, given the current situation, is by using its quota in Itaipu-this alternative, however, requires changes to the treaty that governs the binational operation.
However, risks and uncertainties have been identified. The auction's rules stipulate that the winner will be the one offering the highest price for the longest term and capable of making annual advance payments.
To deliver the energy, the state-owned company Ande (responsible for the auction) says it will use the Itaipu plant connection on the right bank (the Paraguayan side in binational jargon). The trading company that wins the auction must internalize the energy into the Brazilian free market at its own expense, assuming all costs. According to Ande, the source would be the Acaray plant. The other hydroelectric plant, Yacyretá, is a binational project with Argentina, without a connection to Itaipu. However, sector technicians monitoring the process state that, currently, there is no way for this energy to enter Brazil.
#85
The Lula government reached an agreement with Paraguay on the tariff to be charged for energy from the Itaipu plant, after months of negotiations. The countries also committed to premises to be followed regarding the matter. The current tariff, charged at $16.71 per kW per month, will rise to $19.28.
Brazilian consumers will not feel the increase because the difference will be refunded, through a sort of cashback from the binational to ENBpar (the Brazilian state company that holds a 50% stake in the hydroelectric plant).
The mechanism was developed to increase the amount received by the neighboring country in selling energy to its own consumers while Brazilians do not feel the tariff increase.
The value to be practiced this year and in the following calendars is still higher than what could be charged if only the operational cost of the plant were taken into account ($10.77), although it remains below what Paraguay originally demanded ($22.70).
#86
A survey by the National Energy Consumers Front confirms with numbers an old perception in the sector: among the large hydroelectric plants in the country, the generation cost of the Itaipu binational plant weighs the most on Brazilians' pockets.
Last year, the tariff for the plant for the 31 distributors obligated to buy its energy was R$ 294 per MWh (megawatt-hour). The amount far exceeds that practiced by eight other large hydroelectric plants comparable to Itaipu - having already paid construction and installation costs, having economies of scale, produced over 5 million MWh, and being able to offer lower values.
On average, the MWh of this group cost R$ 101.78. That is, in this context, Itaipu's price is almost triple.
The energy from the binational plant cost almost twice the value of the most expensive in this group, the Ilha Solteira hydroelectric plant, whose tariff was R$ 148 last year. Compared to the Xingó value, the cheapest, with a tariff of R$ 56, Itaipu cost five times more.
Economically, according to the Front's evaluation, Itaipu's tariff for distributors should be equivalent to that practiced by older hydroelectric plants, such as Furnas and Itaparica, whose tariff last year was, respectively, R$ 65 and R$ 70.
#87
Amid the dispute between the two partners of Itaipu Binacional over the tariff value, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's government (PT) threatens to terminate the agreement that obliges Brazil to buy the electric power not consumed by Paraguay.
According to the Itaipu Treaty, each country is entitled to 50% of the energy generated by the hydroelectric plant. However, Paraguay has never reached that quota, still consuming around 17% of the total produced today.
In 1973, Brazil committed to purchasing the surplus from Paraguay to ensure the project's viability.
This commitment is not explicitly stated in the treaty that established the company. However, it is outlined in an attached document, which, according to the government, is subject to revision.
In this moment of disagreement over the tariff value, Brazilian authorities are considering using legal instruments to inform Paraguay of their intention to terminate the agreement.
In that case, Paraguay may resort to an international court. Termination is seen as a drastic measure, on the brink of a diplomatic incident.
#88
Fifteen days after being presented, the bill addressing the conservation, protection, and exploration of the Pantanal was approved in the Legislative Assembly of Mato Grosso do Sul. One of the objectives is to combat the wildfires affecting the biome.
The text proposes the creation of a fund to be used to promote sustainable development, prohibits the planting of soy, eucalyptus, and sugarcane, and prohibits the installation of hydroelectric plants and charcoal kilns.
The Pantanal Law, as the proposal is named, will come into effect in 60 days, starting from the publication in the Official Gazette.
The text deals with the conservation, protection, restoration, and ecologically sustainable exploration of the AUR-Pantanal (Restricted Use Area of the Pantanal Plain).
Among the priorities are the recovery of degraded areas, the promotion of research, formal environmental education, and the participation of indigenous communities and the Pantanal private sector in decisions related to territorial guarantees.
#89
Four months ago, Maurício Terena was appointed Head of the Legal Coordination Office at APIB (Articulation of Indigenous Peoples of Brazil), one of the largest Indigenous organisations in the country. He replaced Eloy Terena, who became Executive Secretary of the newly created Ministry for Indigenous Peoples.
Over the past few days, he has focused all his attention on a definitive and historic case for the future of the Indigenous peoples of Brazil: the ruling on the "time frame thesis" by the Brazil's Federal Supreme Court (STF). If approved, Indigenous peoples would only be entitled to lands that were in their possession when Brazil's Federal Constitution was enacted on 5 October 1988, or lands that were under physical or judicial dispute on that date.
On 7 June, the STF is due to resume discussions on the case, which had been on hold for two years.
In the meantime, however, Brazil's Indigenous movements have also had to deal with a bill of law known as PL 490, approved by the Chamber of Deputies in the evening of Tuesday 30 May. PL 490 transfers the competence of Indigenous land demarcation to the Parliament, and opens loopholes for the construction of roads, hydroelectric power plants, and other infrastructure works on Indigenous lands. Terena sees this attempt by the Chamber to vote on the matter quickly, before the STF ruling, as a clear violation of legislative rites.
'The only way to change rights like this is through a Constitutional Amendment because we are talking about significant changes: mitigating and reducing fundamental rights. But they are doing it with an ordinary law. This is surreal and technically wrong', he told FOLHA, in an interview before the vote.
Maurício Terena defines the time frame thesis as a climate dispute. 'If approved, its impacts will affect not only the lives of Indigenous peoples, but also the lives of all people, both in Brazil and all over the world. Indigenous lands are a very important asset, and can provide a solution for the climate crisis we are experiencing this century', he adds.
In order to support his statement, Terena cites data from scientific studies that prove that Indigenous territories are essential for Brazil's achieving its climate goals, and are the areas with the lowest deforestation rates in the Amazon. 'Brazil's environmental policy needs to take into account and reflect the realities of Indigenous lands, together with our Indigenous peoples', he claims.
#90
President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (PT) arrives in China this Wednesday (12) with commercial and financial negotiations still underway with the country of Xi Jinping - they are to meet on Friday, in Beijing.
Earlier, on Thursday, the PT member will attend the inauguration of former president Dilma Rousseff at the BRICS Development Bank, in Shanghai. Lula wants investment in new productive assets and infrastructure, including railroads and hydroelectric plants, while his Chinese counterpart demands Brazil's formal entry into the Belt and Road Initiative, which completes ten years in September.
Members of the Brazilian entourage have signaled in two directions, that the Brazilian president can either sign a memorandum to actively join the Chinese program, which already covers 21 Latin American countries, or it can be limited to symbolic support, without formal adherence.
#91
Climate change has worsened the conditions of drought, heat, and wind in the Pantanal by 40%, leading to the record-breaking wildfires ravaging the biome this year, according to a study released this Thursday (8th).
The research, conducted by the international network of scientists WWA (World Weather Attribution), also concluded that climate changes caused by human activities have increased the chances of catastrophic fires in the Pantanal in June- the month used for the analysis- by four to five times.
Folha was in Corumbá (MS) in June while the city was preparing to celebrate the June festivals, surrounded by fire and smoke. A video of the Arraial do Banho de São João celebration with flames burning the vegetation in the background went viral at the time.
According to Filippe Lemos Maia Santos, a Brazilian scientist who participated in the study, massive fires are becoming the new reality for the biome. The flooded area, a characteristic of the region, is decreasing, he says, as temperatures rise, making the vegetation drier and more flammable.
"The fire season in the Pantanal usually occurs between July and November and is often associated with human ignitions. According to our studies, only 1% of wildfires are associated with lightning," emphasizes Santos, who is a researcher at the University of Évora (Portugal) and a collaborator at UFRJ (Federal University of Rio de Janeiro). To curb the effects of climate change, scientists highlight the urgency of replacing fossil fuels with clean energy, reducing deforestation, and reinforcing bans on controlled burns during critical periods to prevent the spread of flames that affect indigenous communities and farmers.
#92
Investment by Chinese companies in Brazil more than tripled in 2021, returning to pre-Covid pandemic levels and making the country the main destination for Chinese capital last year.
After a lukewarm performance in 2020, operations such as Tencent's investments in fintechs and startups such as Nubank, QuintoAndar and Cora, as well as billionaire investments by Chinese oil companies in the Santos Basin have increased.
Also noteworthy was the purchasing of the power transmission company in Rio Grande do Sul by State Grid and of the Mercedes-Benz plant in Iracemápolis (SP) by Great Wall Motors.
According to a report by the Brazil-China Business Council to be released this Wednesday (31), investment from the Asian country has jumped by 208% in nominal terms (disregarding inflation), to US$ 5.9 billion, the peak in four years.
China's presence has become one of the topics of the presidential campaign.
To entrepreneurs, Minister Paulo Guedes (Economy) said he did not want "the 'Chinese' entering here, breaking our factories, our industries", and former President Lula, who believes China is "taking over Brazil", has expressed his concern regarding the advance of the Asian country in the local industry.








