#1
A drone photo taken on Dec 31, 2024 shows the underground workshop of Fengning pumped-storage power station in Fengning Manchu autonomous county, North China's Hebei province. Fengning power station, the pumped-storage power station with the largest installed capacity of its kind in the world, was put into full operation on Tuesday. 
SHIJIAZHUANG -- The Fengning pumped storage hydropower plant, the largest of its kind globally, has commenced full operation in the city of Chengde, North China's Hebei province.
Operated by the State Grid Corporation of China, the facility boasts a total installed capacity of 3.6 million kilowatts and is designed to generate 6.61 billion kilowatt hours of electricity annually.
The company said that since its initial units began operating in 2021, the plant has generated approximately 8.62 billion kilowatt hours of electricity.
As a leading renewable energy storage technology, pumped storage plays a key role in advancing the country's green energy transition.
The Fengning plant is expected to save 480,800 tonnes of standard coal and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 1.2 million tonnes annually, marking a significant contribution to the country's energy efficiency and environmental sustainability goals, the company said
#2
Chinese companies have emerged as a crucial force driving energy transition in the League of Arab States member countries and regions, a recent EY report said.
Between 2018 and 2023, the total investment and construction contract value reached $52.6 billion, spanning both traditional and new energy sectors.
Oil and gas constitute approximately 74 percent of China's energy-related investments in LAS nations, totaling $41 billion. Key investment destinations include Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
Total value of oil and gas infrastructure projects that Chinese enterprises participated in amounted to $31 billion.
Noteworthy investments are also being made in the new energy sector. Chinese investments in LAS solar and wind energy surpassed $13 billion from 2018 to 2023, representing 24 percent of the total investment.
Of particular interest is China's proactive expansion into the upstream segments of the renewable energy value chain, encompassing solar photovoltaic components and wind power equipment.
Furthermore, China has emerged as the largest source of automotive imports for LAS countries, exhibiting a compound annual growth rate of 23 over the past five years, said the EY report.
#3
China's investment in its energy transition is expected to surpass $1 trillion by 2030, with a focus on enhancing energy efficiency and accelerating electrification, according to a think tank.
In 2024, investment in China's energy sector is forecast to reach $850 billion, accounting for nearly 30 percent of the global total, and standing at 1.5 to 2 times the level of the United States and the European Union, according to the China Energy Outlook 2060 report released by the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, a think tank that is part of China Petroleum and Chemical Corp.
The report highlights a shift in China's energy investment structure compared to 2019, with spending on fossil fuels declining while investments in renewable energy generation and efficiency improvements surging by about 70 percent.
However, investment in critical areas like grids and energy storage has lagged, increasing by less than 10 percent during the same period. This is in stark contrast to that of the European Union, where grid and storage investments slightly outpaced renewable energy spending, it said.
While China has doubled the share of renewable energy in its energy investment mix - spending more than 40 percent of its energy transition funds on renewables, or roughly twice the amount allocated to fossil fuels - grid and storage development remains a weak link, said Luo Daqing, vice-president of the institute.
He cautioned that failing to align grid investment with the rapid growth of renewable energy could undermine the broader energy transition.
Zhou Libo, deputy secretary-general of the China Electricity Council's electric transportation and energy storage branch, said investment is set to grow in integrated energy stations, photovoltaic-storage-charging hubs and supercharging stations, alongside upgrades to outdated infrastructure and adoption of advanced technologies such as automated and vehicle-to-grid interactive charging.
China remains the world's largest energy transition investor, contributing $676 billion in 2023, or 38 percent of the global total, significantly contributing to global green transition, according to the National Energy Administration.
BloombergNEF's Energy Transition Investment Trends 2024 report echoes this view, identifying China as a global leader in the green energy shift.
The report notes that China's grid investments in 2023 ranked third among energy transition sectors, totaling $310 billion. Grid development is a critical bottleneck in China's energy transition, it said.
In 2023, global energy transition investments hit a record $1.77 trillion, up 17 percent year-on-year, despite challenges such as geopolitical conflicts, high inflation and rising interest rates. Key sectors driving the transition - including renewable energy, storage, nuclear energy, hydrogen, electrification, and grids - showed remarkable resilience in the face of external pressures, it said.
China's leadership in energy transition spending has been particularly evident in electrified transportation, renewable energy and grid development. Electrified transport was the largest single sector, with spending rising 36 percent year-on-year to $634 billion, it said.
Domestic grid companies are already stepping up investment in the construction of ultra-high voltage power transmission projects, strengthening the connection between county-level grids and the main grid and upgrading grid digitalization and intelligence.
State Grid Corp of China said earlier this year that its annual grid investment surpassed 600 billion yuan ($84 billion) for the first time in 2024.
Ultra-high voltage transmission lines refer to power transmission cables operating with greater than 800 kilovolts of direct current, or 1,000 kV of alternating current. Compared with traditional transmission lines, ultra-high voltage lines not only increase transmission capacity and extend transmission distances, but also reduce transmission losses.
#4
The Chinese government has approved the construction of a hydropower project in the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo River.
The project will play a positive role in accelerating the country's efforts to create a new development pattern and pursue high-quality development, according to an official statement.
It is also of great importance to advancing the country's strategy for carbon peaking and carbon neutrality and to coping with global climate change.
The hydropower project is a green project aimed at promoting low-carbon development.
By harnessing the abundant hydropower resources of the Yarlung Zangbo River, the project will also spur the development of solar and wind energy resources in surrounding areas, thus creating a clean energy base featuring a complementary mix of hydro, wind and solar power. This represents a major move in China's green and low-carbon energy transition.
The hydropower project is expected to boost local people's livelihood and prosperity in Southwest China's Xizang autonomous region.
It will directly stimulate the rapid growth of such industries as engineering, logistics and trade services, and create new jobs. Once completed, the project will further improve infrastructures of electricity, water conservancy and transportation. It will strengthen the synergy of development between Xizang and other regions, thus enhancing the sense of gain, happiness and security for people of all ethnic groups in Xizang.
Furthermore, the hydropower project is a safe project that prioritizes ecological protection. Through extensive geological explorations and technical advancements, a solid foundation has been laid for the science-based, secure, and high-quality development of the project.
The project is expected to help improve the local eco-environmental monitoring network system, and achieve area-wide protection through its development, thus promoting harmony between humanity and nature.
#5
Chinese companies have emerged as a crucial force driving energy transition in the League of Arab States member countries and regions, a recent EY report said.
Between 2018 and 2023, the total investment and construction contract value reached $52.6 billion, spanning both traditional and new energy sectors.
Oil and gas constitute approximately 74 percent of China's energy-related investments in LAS nations, totaling $41 billion. Key investment destinations include Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
Total value of oil and gas infrastructure projects that Chinese enterprises participated in amounted to $31 billion.
Noteworthy investments are also being made in the new energy sector. Chinese investments in LAS solar and wind energy surpassed $13 billion from 2018 to 2023, representing 24 percent of the total investment.
Of particular interest is China's proactive expansion into the upstream segments of the renewable energy value chain, encompassing solar photovoltaic components and wind power equipment.
Furthermore, China has emerged as the largest source of automotive imports for LAS countries, exhibiting a compound annual growth rate of 23 over the past five years, said the EY report.
#6
China is set to further enhance its energy self-sufficiency while expanding its renewable energy dominance in the coming years, said the National Energy Administration during a conference in Beijing on Sunday.
While crude oil production in China has increased for six consecutive years, natural gas output has also risen for eight straight years, boosting the country's energy self-sufficiency rate above 80 percent in 2024, the NEA said.
The country's total power generation capacity stands at around 3.32 billion kilowatts this year, with electricity output reaching 10 trillion kilowatt-hours, up 5.7 percent year-on-year, it said.
Renewable energy resources are on course to contribute more to the country's total energy supply. China is set to add more than 300 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity this year, accounting for over 85 percent of all newly installed capacity, a significant step in the country's green and low-carbon energy transition, it said.
China continued to accelerate construction of large-scale wind and solar power bases in the Gobi Desert and other arid regions this year amid efforts to boost renewable power, said Wang Hongzhi, head of the NEA.
To date, China had installed about 510 million kW of wind power and 840 million kW of photovoltaic power, with the utilization rate remaining at above 95 percent, driving rapid growth in both sectors, Wang said.
China has also transformed and upgraded 180 million kW of coal power units and eliminated more than 8 million kW of outdated capacity this year, with the proportion of intelligent production capacity in total coal production capacity increasing to more than 50 percent, the NEA said.
While major hydropower projects progressed in an orderly manner throughout this year - with several large-scale projects approved for construction, boosting total hydropower capacity in the country to 435 GW - China has also become the world's largest nuclear power producer, with the country's total nuclear power generation capacity topping the global list.
A total of 102 nuclear reactors are currently in operation or under construction with a total installed capacity of 113 GW, it said.
With enhanced national energy security guarantee capacity and green low-carbon development, the China Electricity Council expects the country will add around 250 GW of new solar power capacity in 2024, bringing the total installed capacity to over 850 GW.
This would account for more than a quarter of China's total power generation capacity, it said.
According to global consultancy Rystad Energy, China's solar sector is set to break records in the coming years, with total installed solar PV capacity expected to cross the 1,000 GW mark by the end of 2026.
Rystad Energy expects 255 GW of new solar PV installation in China in 2024, with another surge in installation towards the end of the year expected - around 20 GW in November and 50 GW in December.
Renewable energy installation has surged since last year and the momentum has not been slowing down, said Zhu Yicong, vice-president of renewables and power research at Rystad Energy.
China has shown its clear leadership in global PV installation and we are expecting close to 60 percent of such global installation to come from China this year, Zhu said.
Looking ahead, the NEA said during the conference that the country will accelerate the planning and construction of a new energy system in 2025.
Wang said China is on track to establish a national unified power market with a preliminary structure to be established by 2025, further integrating renewable energy resources while optimizing the distribution of power across the vast national grid.
A national unified power market is a system where electricity is bought, sold and distributed across the entire country in a standardized way. It connects all regions, ensuring equal access to power, promotes competition and allows for efficient pricing.
Efforts will be made to ensure continuous operation of the medium and long-term electricity market, with the goal of achieving full provincial coverage of electricity spot markets, he said.
#7
Oil and gas have reinforced supply security throughout this year as China navigates the path between energy transition and its carbon neutrality goals, said industry experts and company executives.
As the world's second-largest economy intensifies efforts to align energy security with its carbon-neutral ambitions, oil and gas are playing central roles as advancements in exploration and production technology have boosted output, ensuring stronger energy resilience, they say.
"China's oil and gas industry in 2024 has demonstrated remarkable resilience and adaptability, leveraging advanced technologies to increase domestic production while reducing reliance on imports," said Wu Mouyuan, vice-president of the Economics and Technology Research Institute under China National Petroleum Corp.
Breakthroughs in ultra-deep drilling and offshore exploration have significantly enhanced the country's capacity to tap into its abundant but challenging reserves, securing a more robust foundation for energy independence, he said during the International Energy Executive Forum 2024 held in Beijing earlier this month.
Oil and gas are expected to maintain their share of the energy mix over the medium to long term, making it critical to avoid disruptions caused by the energy transition. Stable investments and forecasts are essential to maintaining high supply levels and ensuring global energy security, he said.
According to the institute, China's energy self-sufficiency rate has climbed to an impressive 85 percent in 2024, a five-percentage-point increase compared to a decade ago. The figure is expected to further climb to 95 percent by 2060, driven by accelerated innovation in exploration and the scaling up of renewable energy systems.
The energy output this year surpassed 5 billion metric tons of standard coal equivalent, and projections for 2060 suggest it will reach 6 billion tons. This growth reflects China's strategic dual focus: securing a stable fossil fuel supply and scaling renewable energy as a major contributor to its energy mix, it said.
Wu said China's oil and gas sectors remain indispensable to its energy strategy, even as the nation advances toward its goal of carbon neutrality before 2060.
Technological breakthroughs, such as those related to ultra-deep oil and gas reserve exploration - as well as deep sea oil and gas exploitation - play a key role in China's energy supply, he said.
A Chinese ultra-deep oil well broke through the 10,000-meter depth mark in March 2024, with the country's first well exceeding a vertical depth of more than 10,000 meters, setting the record for not only the deepest well in Asia, but also the world record for the shortest time taken to drill a 10,000-meter deep well.
In the oil drilling industry, wells that are between 4,500 and 6,000 meters deep are called deep wells. Wells between 6,000 and 9,000 meters deep are called super-deep wells, and those deeper than 9,000 meters are classified as ultra-deep wells.
With a designed depth of 11,100 meters, the Shendi Take 1 ultra-deep well, located in the Tarim Basin in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, is part of China's efforts to expand domestic oil production, said its operator CNPC.
It shows that China has independently overcome the bottleneck in extra-deep well drilling technology, and that its deep-earth oil and gas drilling capability and supporting technology have reached internationally advanced levels, it said.
At present, China's onshore deep and ultra-deep oil and gas resources account for 34 percent of the country's total oil and gas resources, and the proportion of new deep and ultra-deep oil and gas reserves is increasing year by year.
China is the world's largest crude oil importer and relies on imports for nearly three-quarters of its needs. It has been investing billions of dollars to maintain its domestic crude oil production at above 4 million barrels a day.
Offshore oil and gas resources, in particular, are also gaining prominence. China National Offshore Oil Corporation reported record growth in both crude oil and natural gas output this year, supported by advanced engineering technologies.
The nation's offshore oil discovery rate has reached 30 percent, exceeding the global average of 24 percent, while offshore natural gas discovery remains an area of significant untapped potential, said Wang Zhen, head of the CNOOC Energy Economics Institute, during the forum.
"As global offshore crude oil contributes over 70 percent of new discoveries, China's offshore resources are set to play an increasingly vital role in energy security," he said.
Industry experts believe investment in offshore oil and gas exploration is expected to increase further, with more than half of this year's domestic oil increment likely to come from offshore sources.
China's offshore oil and gas production is expected to rise further this year, while the country's ongoing investment and focus on upstream production will be crucial for ensuring its energy security, said Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF.
Natural gas, often hailed as a transition fuel in the journey to a low-carbon future, has also seen steady production increases in China this year.
The CNPC institute expects annual natural gas output to rise from 250 billion cubic meters currently to over 310 billion cubic meters by 2035, with further growth projected through 2060.
The combination of domestic natural gas development and the adoption of new technologies like coal gasification ensures that gas will remain a cornerstone of China's energy system, said Wu.
Wu said China has been tapping into unconventional resources to expand its energy supply, with significant advancements in shale gas exploration and coalbed methane extraction currently reshaping the country's resource landscape.
The untapped reserves, such as low-maturity shale oil and underground coal gasification, could unleash vast new potential in the coming decades, he said.
"Unconventional resources will see exponential growth with continued technological breakthroughs," said Li Guoxin, deputy chief geologist of CNPC. "These resources will not only enhance self-sufficiency, but also provide a buffer against external market uncertainties."
While oil and gas remain critical, China's energy demand is undergoing a transformative shift. The country's leadership in renewable energy, particularly wind and solar power, has set the stage for a multifaceted energy structure by 2060, said Wu.
Currently, coal accounts for 55 percent of the energy mix, with oil and natural gas at 18 percent and 9 percent, respectively. By mid-century, renewables are expected to dominate, accounting for nearly 80 percent of the energy portfolio, he said.
"Fossil fuels will transition to serve as a safety net and a source of key materials, while non-fossil fuels will become the backbone of energy supply," Wu said.
Under such a circumstance, the CNPC institute expects the country's oil consumption to peak around 2025 at 770 million tons, five years earlier than previous estimates.
China's oil demand has reached a historic turning point. In 2023, oil consumption for transportation peaked, driven by the rapid adoption of electric vehicles and advances in public transit electrification.
Over the long term, oil's role in China will increasingly pivot toward industrial and chemical applications. By 2060, petrochemical feedstocks are projected to account for 60 percent of oil consumption, up from 50 percent today. Meanwhile, transportation fuel use will decline to less than 20 percent, it said.
"The rise of renewable energy manufacturing, which relies heavily on petrochemical materials, ensures that oil will remain indispensable for decades to come," said Wu.
Despite the fact that China has emerged as a powerhouse in scaling renewable energy systems, with non-fossil energy production expected to surpass 5 billion tons of standard coal equivalent by 2060, making up nearly 80 percent of the energy mix, oil and gas will remain indispensable in the near term, he said.
"With bold ambitions and a clear roadmap, China's energy sector stands at the forefront of a transformative - one that will define the country's economic and environmental legacy for generations to come," said Wu. "The sheer scale of industrial and transportation needs, coupled with the current limitations of renewables, means fossil fuels are still vital for the foreseeable future."
China has stepped up its international cooperation in the oil sector in 2024, expanding partnerships with key energy-producing countries to secure stable supplies and enhance technological collaboration.
China's three State-owned oil giants - China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, CNPC and CNOOC - have ramped up efforts to strengthen international collaboration in oil and gas development throughout the past year, with an increasing focus on transitioning to green energy.
Dai Houliang, chairman of CNPC, said the oil sector should expand oil and gas cooperation to jointly secure global energy supplies while emphasizing the importance of increasing openness and collaboration to accelerate transformation and upgrade efforts.
The emphasis on expanding oil and gas cooperation remains critical in ensuring global energy security amid growing demand and geopolitical uncertainty, said Wang Lining, director of the oil market department under the economics and technology research institute of CNPC.
Deepening collaboration serves as a strategic buffer against the volatility induced by geopolitical uncertainties and market disruptions. This approach reinforces energy diversification, supply chain resilience, and long-term sustainability in the face of shifting geopolitical and economic dynamics, he added.
#8
China currently ranks first in the world in the scale of its operational and under-construction nuclear power, with the share of this non-fossil source in the country's energy mix set to keep climbing, according to the National Energy Administration.
China has become the world's largest nuclear power producer, with the country's total nuclear power generation capacity ranking tops in the world, said Wang Hongzhi, head of the NEA, during a national energy work conference held in Beijing on Sunday.
A total of 102 nuclear reactors are currently in operation or under construction with a total installed capacity of 113 gigawatts in the country, Wang said.
China plans to approve and begin construction of a batch of mature coastal nuclear power projects in 2025, while steadily advancing the construction of ongoing nuclear plants. Nuclear power capacity in operation by the end of next year is expected to reach 65 GW, he said.
China approved five new nuclear power projects earlier this year, including 11 nuclear power units that involve a variety of independent nuclear power technology routes, demonstrating the nation's constant effort to increase the share of non-fossil energy consumption in the country.
The nuclear power projects were approved with a total investment exceeding 240 billion yuan ($34.20 billion), of which private capital accounts for 10 percent, which is seen as favorable in further stimulating the vitality of the sector.
Among the projects, Jiangsu Xuwei nuclear power heating plant, which encompasses three units and is operated by China National Nuclear Power Co Ltd, is the world's first to combine high-temperature gas-cooled reactors with pressurized water reactors.
In recent years, there has been steady progress in the approval of domestic nuclear power projects in China, with 10 new nuclear power units approved in 2022 as well as in 2023.
The first unit of the Zhangzhou nuclear power plant, currently the largest "Hualong One" nuclear power base in the world, started power generation in November, a significant milestone in the mass construction of the "Hualong One" nuclear reactors.
"Hualong One" refers to China's third-generation nuclear power technology with full intellectual property rights, which is also one of the most widely accepted series of third-generation nuclear power reactors in the world.
The total number of "Hualong One" nuclear power units in operation or under construction, both domestically and internationally, has reached 33. It is the most numerous third-generation nuclear power technology in terms of units in operation or under construction worldwide, marking China's nuclear power technology and overall competitiveness as being in the world's top tier.
Industry experts believe China has been actively and safely developing nuclear power in recent years and that future power supply growth in the country is likely to come mostly from non-fossil energy sources amid its green energy transition.
Currently, nuclear power accounts for less than 5 percent of China's electricity generation, leaving substantial room for growth, said Zhang Tingke, vice-chairman of the China Nuclear Energy Association.
The association forecasts that China is set to further expand its installed nuclear power capacity, which will account for 10 percent of China's total power output in 2035, up from 5 percent in 2021.
Nuclear power generation's share is expected to reach 18 percent by 2060, which is similar to the current average level for members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), it said.
CITIC Securities believes the value of investments in new nuclear power plants will hit 231 billion yuan by 2025 in China, as the accelerated approval of nuclear power projects is expected to boost China's related industry chain, helping the country achieve its carbon emission reduction targets ahead of schedule.
S&P Global Commodity Insights believes nuclear power's role has become increasingly important in recent years in China, and the country's energy policy is leaning toward strong growth in nuclear, in line with several European countries where it has assumed greater importance with the diversification away from Russian oil and gas.
The agency projects that China's nuclear generation capacity will reach 145 gigawatts in 2035, more than double the 2025 target level.
#9
China is set to further enhance its energy self-sufficiency and expand its renewable energy dominance in the coming years, according to a report released during the International Energy Executive Forum 2024 held in Beijing on Wednesday.
China's energy self-sufficiency rate has climbed to an impressive 85 percent, or 5 billion metric tons of standard coal equivalent, in 2024, a five percentage point increase compared to a decade ago, according to the report released by the China National Petroleum Corp Economics and Technology Research Institute.
This is expected to further rise to 6 billion tons of standard coal equivalent, climbing to 95 percent by 2060, driven by accelerated innovation in exploration and the scaling up of renewable energy systems, it said.
China has made significant strides in solidifying its global leadership in wind and solar power, with a focus on scaling up the development of renewable energy. The integration of traditional and new energy sources has further enhanced the resilience and flexibility of the country's energy system, said Wu Mouyuan, vice-president of the institute.
According to Wu, oil and natural gas will continue to play a pivotal role in balancing energy security with China's transition to carbon neutrality, despite the advances of renewable energy sources, and these resources are expected to provide stability as the country works toward its long-term energy transformation goals.
Oil and gas are anticipated to remain integral to the energy mix in the medium to long term, minimizing disruptions during the energy transition. Stable investments and reliable projections are vital for sustaining robust supply levels and safeguarding global energy security, he said.
Wu noted that technological advancements, including innovations in ultra-deep oil and gas exploration and deep-sea resource development, are crucial to ensuring China's energy supply.
In March 2024, China achieved a milestone by drilling its first ultra-deep oil well exceeding 10,000 meters in vertical depth. This well not only set a record as the deepest in Asia, but also established a global benchmark for the shortest time required to drill a well of such depth, according to its operator China National Petroleum Corp.
In the oil drilling sector, wells with depths ranging from 4,500 to 6,000 meters are categorized as deep wells, those between 6,000 and 9,000 meters are classified as super-deep wells, and wells exceeding 9,000 meters are designated as ultra-deep wells.
The institute expects natural gas output to rise from 250 billion cubic meters currently to over 310 billion cubic meters by 2035, with further growth projected through 2060.
China has been tapping into unconventional resources to expand its energy supply, with significant advancements in shale gas exploration and coal-bed methane extraction currently reshaping the country's resource landscape, it said.
The combination of domestic natural gas development and the adoption of new technologies like coal gasification ensures that gas will remain a cornerstone of China's energy system, said Wu.
The untapped reserves, such as low-maturity shale oil and underground coal gasification, could unleash vast new potential in the coming decades, he said.
Li Guoxin, deputy chief geologist of PetroChina, believes unconventional resources will see exponential growth with continued technological breakthroughs, which will not only enhance self-sufficiency but also provide a buffer against external market uncertainties.
Wu added that the rapid development of artificial intelligence, advanced manufacturing, new energy and new materials all require significant energy resources to support their development.
#10
Eurasian Resources Group (ERG), a natural resources group based in Luxembourg, said recently that it's planning another wind farm project in Kazakhstan with power company China Huadian Corp Ltd and Kazakhstan's Argestus.
The wind power plant will be located near Ekibastuz in the Pavlodar region. With an installed capacity of 200 megawatts and investment of approximately $176 million, the facility is expected to complete construction by end-2026.
"The use of alternative and renewable energy sources is one of ERG's main focus areas. Our actions to build wind power farms in Kazakhstan should contribute to the achievement of the country's goal to further reduce the carbon footprint of its products," said Shukhrat Ibragimov, ERG's CEO and chairman of the board of managers.
The move comes after ERG's earlier announced project - a 150 MW wind farm in the Aktobe region of Kazakhstan.
ERG is 40 percent owned by the Kazakhstan government, said the company's official website. It has a track record of around 30 years in the global metals and mining sector, spanning extraction and production, processing, energy, logistics and marketing.
Its cooperation with China Huadian marks the latest example of China-Kazakhstan energy cooperation, which boasts a long-standing history and bright prospects, experts said.
Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, said: "Energy cooperation between China and Kazakhstan has been fruitful. In the oil and gas sector, Chinese enterprises have established a complete industry chain in Kazakhstan, encompassing oil and gas exploration and development, pipeline construction and operation, engineering and technical services, as well as refining and sales, which play a crucial role in ensuring both countries' energy security.
"There is still significant room for development in the oil and gas sector in the future.
"Currently, a number of wind power projects are underway. There will be more cooperation in clean energy sectors such as nuclear power."
In November, China's National Energy Administration and the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan signed an agreement, signaling collaborative efforts to advance renewable energy projects in the Central Asian nation.
The agreement delineates cooperation objectives, project targets, legal frameworks and key implementation conditions, helping facilitate the active participation of enterprises from both nations in wind power, photovoltaics and other ventures in Kazakhstan.
It also identifies an initial list of major projects totaling 1.8 gigawatts, the NEA said.
"New energy development is an inevitable global trend. With Kazakhstan's abundant wind and solar resources, the joint exploration of new energy between China and Kazakhstan will contribute to the green energy transition of both sides and yield more win-win results," Lin said.
#11
Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto concluded his three-day state visit to China on Nov 10, after which he headed to the United States, before attending the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Economic Leaders' Meeting in Lima, Peru. The visit saw a number of investment deals sealed in key areas of green transition, including lithium, new energy vehicles and green energy development.
Prabowo's visit to China, his second since being elected president in February, speaks of the significance of the relationship. China is now Indonesia's biggest trading partner and a major investor in infrastructure and green projects.
The Indonesian president's target of 8 percent GDP growth, along with advancing energy security and green transition, is no mean feat amid all the global competition. With Indonesia importing 60 percent of its oil requirements, achieving national energy self-reliance and sovereignty sits high on his agenda.
All of these, coupled with Indonesia's aim of achieving carbon neutrality by 2060 and tripling its renewable energy capacity by 2030, means that developing a clean energy value chain and leveraging the China-Indonesia partnership are key priorities.
Significant strides were made by Prabowo's predecessor to attract green foreign investments, including from China. These efforts have brought in major Chinese players, such as electric vehicle makers Wuling and BYD and solar panel producer Trina Solar, to address both growing domestic demand and export markets.
In the nickel sector, where Indonesia meets half of the global demand, the country has attracted significant Chinese investments in nickel smelters and basic processing industries. While improvements in the supply chain are needed on many fronts, these investments have demonstrated how Chinese investors can move at the speed aligned with Indonesia's broader economic goals.
So far, Indonesia has met less than one-third of the $19 billion investment needed annually to achieve its climate targets, as outlined in its Enhanced Nationally Determined Contribution - a shortfall that also presents an opportunity.
With Indonesia aiming to nurture its historical ties in foreign relations while exploring emerging economic opportunities, China is a natural partner for deepening a green partnership.
A shared vision
Prabowo outlined eight missions for his administration, known as Asta Cita. Parts of this vision strongly emphasize self-reliance while developing Indonesia's economy, which bears some resemblance to China's vision of "a great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation". It is an avenue to weave a community with a shared future, preferably a green one.
Multiple transition initiatives are already emerging in the Asian region, such as the Just Energy Transition Partnerships and Japan's Asia Zero Emission Community initiative. What sets China apart in complementing these existing efforts is its strength in delivering low-cost, high-tech green industries, and its shared trajectory with Indonesia's aim to simultaneously grow and build global relevance, again, at speed.
While both countries are historically known as "coal giants", China's accelerated progress in the green space exemplifies how the global green transition can be viewed as an opportunity rather than as a risk.
As Southeast Asian countries compete to enter the green value chain, Indonesia's large economy and abundance of natural resources provide a strong footing, but the new, outward-looking president must move with haste.
The new government needs to put forward consistent policy signals for renewable energy buildup, incentives to build local industries, while safeguarding a just and transparent green transition. There are also a few things to bear in mind.
First, Indonesia's green plans and road maps need better unification and accountability. Chinese investors are both patient and hasty. Convening and building relationships is the start, but clear near-term targets that all parties can rely on are crucial to moving forward. Toward that end, the myriad sectoral road maps would benefit by having a unified road map, where ministerial plans complement the broader agenda of the president's office, rather than pulling in different directions.
Second, it is essential to remain responsive to the global market dynamics to stay relevant. The global green transition is not a linear process. Improvements in technologies and working standards are evolving simultaneously, addressing the various imperfections of the green value chain. As attention on environmental impact and labor standards intensifies, responsive actions are required from both the Indonesian government and Chinese investors.
Third, more attention should be given to showcasing green and responsible Chinese investment achievements in Indonesia and abroad. While challenges remain, there are also many positive stories that have largely gone untold to the wider Indonesian public.
Ultimately, in a world where the ground is constantly shifting, perhaps a mere "partnership" may prove insufficient, and a deeper bond between the two countries could be better forged toward the long road to greener economies. And what better way to begin the journey than with a warm visit to start charting the path forward together?
#12
Hong Kong can play a key role in supporting the green initiatives of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations by sharing its experience in environmental, social and governance practices to promote harmonious socioeconomic development.
This was according to industry experts at the Global Green Leadership Forum held in the special administrative region on Dec 3.
Noting that ASEAN is in the early stages of green development with limited ESG awareness and a gap with international standards, Anthony Lam Sai-ho, executive deputy chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, said this will provide Hong Kong companies the opportunity to use their expertise and mature ESG development experience to support the region's green transition.

According to a survey conducted by the FHKI, 45 percent of its members have already invested in ASEAN, with Vietnam, Thailand, and Singapore among the top destinations.
"Hong Kong can help the ASEAN countries to upgrade their ESG standards and we can be the bridge between the sustainability development of ASEAN countries (and the world)," said Lam, noting the city has unique advantage as an international financial center.
The theme of the forum was Greenism, ESG Evolution: Catalyzing Climate Action for UN SDGs - New Opportunities for Hong Kong's Future. It was co-organized by Hong Kong-based environmental group World Green Organisation, the Institute of Knowledge Exchange and the Asia-Pacific ASEAN Green Deal Centre of The Hang Seng University of Hong Kong (HSUHK).
The forum was held concurrently with WGO's 12th anniversary.
As a service market, Hong Kong has the potential to work with ASEAN countries, said Herbin Koh, head of growth equity platform and climate technology and deputy head of infrastructure of Gaw Capital, a real estate private equity fund management firm.
For example, Spark, an electric vehicle start-up backed by Hong Kong Investment Group, formed in August a partnership with Thai energy company Bangchak to set up 1,000 EV charging stations in stations in Thailand in the next five years.
Speaking from an investor's perspective, Koh said companies also need to think about how to make their "green" solution practical so it can demonstrate a path to profitability.
"ESG is not only about socially good, but will also bring good return," said Lee Ho-tak, managing director of family office Cheah Capital.
Noting China has developed into one of the greenest countries in the past ten years, Lee also talked about the potential of China's renewable industry, particularly solar and wind, and the prospects of the country's electric vehicles.
China is now the world's largest investor in energy transition. By the end of July, China's installed capacity of renewable energy reached 1.68 billion kilowatts, accounting for over 54 percent of the country's total installed capacity, according to the National Energy Administration.
When talking about ESG, it is important to return to the most basic concept because a corporation, which is also a public institution, has to carry out social function by nature, said HSUHK President Simon Ho Shun-man.
"To me, sustainability should cover three dimensions, environmental, social and also economic," said Ho, noting companies must optimize all three values if they want to remain competitive in the market.
Ho said ESG initiatives do not mean huge investment because sometimes even a small amount of cost can generate huge impact with the right strategy.
Despite the hype in ESG over the past few years, the global carbon dioxide emissions are on track to hit a record high this year, said WGO Founder and CEO William Yu Yuen-ping.
There are ways to mitigate this. For example, by using solar and water shield coating technology, up to 95 percent of solar heat radiation can be blocked and indoor temperature can be reduced by 5-10 degrees Celsius, Yu said.
"The environmental issue ... is no longer a pure green issue," said Yu. "We need to seriously handle this because that will bring implications to our asset loss and economic loss."
Kenneth Kwong Ka-kei, assistant professor and director of HSUHK's Chinese Family Succession Research Centre, said he encourages companies to take a new angle to think about ESG in terms of how it will affect consumers' lifestyle and behavior.
This is because in contrast to how corporates view ESG as a strategy for long-term development, consumers think more about the way of living, said Kwong, citing a research done by the center.
#13
Indonesia plans to slash the share of coal-fired power generation in the country's energy mix to 33 percent, while increasing the contribution of renewables to 42 percent by the end of 2040.
Indonesia's coordinating minister for economic affairs, Airlangga Hartarto, made the statement on the sidelines of the G20 meeting in Rio de Janeiro on Nov 20, adding that the country was prepared to add 75 gigawatts of renewables and 70,000 kilometers of new transmission lines to realize the vision.
"To achieve this vision, Indonesia will need $235 billion in investment," Airlangga said in a statement. Indonesia is one of the world's largest thermal coal exporters and carbon emitters. According to the International Energy Agency, the country is the fourth-largest coal producer and one of the world's biggest coal exporters.
The green objective, if achieved, would mark a jump in the country's energy transition, with Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry data showing that renewables accounted for less than 14 percent last year, while coal contributed more than 40 percent.
The rest of last year's energy mix came from oil and gas, which accounted for over 30 percent and 16 percent, respectively.
Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto recently said that Indonesia was one of the few countries that could meet its entire energy needs without relying on fossil fuels.
He told leaders at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Lima on Nov 14 that the country was blessed with natural resources and thus could be completely self-sufficient in clean energy.
The commitment to accelerate clean energy use comes as the country has fallen behind its own timeline in its efforts to reduce the carbon footprint of power production.
Last year, Indonesia missed its renewables target for the energy mix as the share failed to reach the 17.87 percent deemed necessary to keep the country on track for the 2025 target.
Indonesia's national energy council has proposed cutting the target for the country's renewables share in the energy mix to just between 17 and 19 percent by the end of 2025, down from the previously envisioned 23 percent. Energy authorities said in January that Indonesia would need to be realistic.
In November last year, the government and state-owned electricity firm PLN agreed to focus more on controlling emissions from coal-fired power plants, while keeping them up and running until the end of their lifespans, rather than retiring them early to expedite the shift to cleaner energy.
#14
Driven by rising petrochemical consumption in Asia's emerging economies, especially China, Saudi Arabian Oil Company, Saudi Aramco, has vowed to further expand its liquids-to-chemicals business in the region to meet growing demand while guaranteeing long-term supply of crude oil from Saudi Arabia, the world's largest exporter of crude.
"With the global petrochemical landscape rapidly evolving and demand growth anticipated to accelerate, Saudi Aramco will continue to grow our liquids-to-chemicals business, with a goal to increase throughput in integrated refining and petrochemicals complexes to up to four million barrels per day - up from two million a day currently," said Yasser M Mufti, executive vice-president of products and customers at Saudi Aramco.
"We expect to see growth driven by rising consumption from Asia's emerging economies and Saudi Aramco already has new investments, such as the Gulei project, a $10 billion mega oil-refining and petrochemical project that began construction in late November in East China's Fujian province, the largest industrial investment in Fujian to date," he said.
Expected to be fully operational by 2030, the project, a collaboration between China Petroleum & Chemical Corp, Saudi Aramco and Fujian Petrochemical Co Ltd, is a significant milestone in China-Saudi energy collaboration. It aims to have a 16 million metric ton-per-year oil refining unit, a 1.5 million ton-per-year ethylene unit, 2 million tons in paraxylene and downstream derivatives capacity, and a 300,000-ton crude oil terminal.
"The project is key to downstream expansion as we continue to provide chemicals to some of the largest and fastest-growing economies in the world," said Mufti.
"As a big believer in China's long-term potential with a positive view of the Chinese economy going forward, we are confident of the great value in ongoing investments as well as helping China to realize its ambition of transforming its economy and enabling growth and prosperity to the Chinese people," he said.
The liquids-to-chemicals strategy is a way in which energy companies turn oil or other liquid fuels into chemicals that are used to make everyday products like plastics, detergents and fabrics. This comes at a time when demand for oil as fuel, like gasoline for cars, is projected to decrease gradually once renewable energy and electric vehicles become more popular, even as that of chemicals used in manufacturing everyday items is growing.
Aramco sees the use of goods such as plastics outlasting the growth in consumption of gasoline and diesel amid the energy transition, with much of the expansion in chemicals likely coming from Asia.
The company expects global oil demand to reach 106 million barrels per day by the end of 2025, with 65 percent of that growth driven by Asia.
"Total demand in China is expected to reach 17.4 million barrels per day in fiscal year 2024 and 17.7 million barrels per day in fiscal year 2025, driven by jet fuels and petrochemicals as we see resilient export volumes and increased aviation traffic," said Mufti.
With chemical product demand in China expected to grow along with economic recovery, multinational chemical corporations like Aramco and BASF have been prioritizing downstream assets in the country, an analyst said.
The focus on the Asia Pacific, especially China, is rooted in the expectation of resilient chemical demand growth in the region, said Hong Luxi, head of downstream oil and chemicals at BloombergNEF.
China is currently a powerhouse representing 40 percent of global chemical product sales. Eyeing the potential opportunities, Saudi Aramco has been stepping up collaboration with domestic players in recent years, including the two agreements last year for multi-billion dollar liquids-to-chemicals investments in China - the acquisition of an interest in the Rongsheng Petrochemicals Co in Zhejiang province for $3.4 billion and a partnership in Liaoning province at a cost of $12 billion.
China is strategically important to Aramco's business growth in Asia and worldwide and the company plans to continue expanding its presence here to support the country's energy security and development trajectory, said Mufti.
He said, the ventures in China enable the company to help create new pathways for growth by driving the deeper integration of refining and petrochemical processes.
"We will continue to support China's long-term energy security and economic growth, eyeing greater investment and cooperation opportunities amid the country's high-quality development," he said.
"Looking ahead, we see opportunities for further investments in integrated downstream projects spanning oil supply, refining, chemicals and lubricants."
#15
On November 18, the "Green Electricity Town" plan submitted by State Grid Yinchuan Power Supply Company was selected into the case collection of "Accelerating Action, Increasing Contributions and Assisting Energy Green and Low-carbon Transformation Excellent Solutions" and released at the 29th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP29), the 29th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
The conference was held in Baku, capital of Azerbaijan, from November 11 to 22. Representatives from about 200 parties to the convention and climate experts gathered in Azerbaijan to urge countries around the world to jointly respond to climate change challenges and work together to build a greener, low-carbon and sustainable future.
The report "Accelerate Action, Increase Contribution: Excellent Solutions to Promote Green and Low-carbon Transformation of Energy" includes 6 solutions from the State Grid system to promote green and low-carbon transformation of energy. It promotes energy substitution and energy conservation and carbon reduction from both the supply and consumption sides of energy, covering the construction of zero-carbon industrial parks, low-carbon transformation of small and medium-sized industrial parks, island power supply, green energy to promote rural revitalization, green vehicles in the public sector, and eco-friendly power grid construction.
The "Green Power Town, a New Idea for Rural Revitalization" tells a story in which the State Grid Yinchuan Power Supply Company took Minning Town as a pilot, and built the town into a "green power town" with 100 percent supply of green electricity 24 hours a day through accurate calculation. Through this way, a new path for high-quality utilization of new energy was explored, and green energy was used to promote the coordinated advancement of rural revitalization and the "dual carbon" goals, providing reference for the solution of similar problems in other regions.
He Jijiang, executive deputy director of the Energy Transition Research Center of the School of Social Sciences of Tsinghua University, said after carefully reading this report that the power grid system has played a key role in the process of the "dual carbon" goal, and power grid companies have always been at the forefront of promoting the development of renewable energy.
In the next step, State Grid Yinchuan Power Supply Company will focus on the "Sai Shang Green Power" brand of State Grid Ningxia Power, continue to fulfill due social responsibilities, promoting clean and low-carbon transformation and development.
#16
Accelerated global action is urgently needed to reach climate goals and cooperation is essential to advance collective efforts, as the world is currently off track in achieving the goal of tripling the installed capacity of renewable energy by 2030, set at the 2023 COP28 climate conference, said Francesco La Camera, director-general of the International Renewable Energy Agency.
Tripling renewables is essential to cut emissions and keep the Paris Agreement goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 C within reach, La Camera said in a recent interview with China Daily.
Against this backdrop, the global capacity of renewable energy needs to surpass 11,174 gigawatts by 2030, with an average annual increase of 1,044 GW from 2024 to 2030, IRENA's analysis showed.
This includes 360 GW of wind power and 578 GW of solar power each year, it said.
Last year, the global addition of renewable power capacity was 473 GW.
"This puts us not on track. We really have to change rapidly the speed and the scale of this transformation, if you want to stay, again, on a pathway that's going to achieve (the Paris Agreement target)," he said.
La Camera reaffirmed that global cooperation is paramount in achieving shared climate goals. He said initiatives to promote information exchange, facilitate market functionality, and reduce tariffs on renewable energy-related goods are essential for fostering collaboration among nations.
Yet, global cooperation in the energy transition sector is facing great challenges, with trade tariffs being an issue.
"It's really difficult to accept this deal that the trade tariffs are more favorable for fossil fuels and related goods, and really not like that for renewable goods. These are really not acceptable. These kinds of things have to change if a country wants to collaborate more closely on going toward the common goal, because climate change is not the fight of one country, but is the fight of the world against this menace for the world itself," La Camera said.
Meanwhile, trade conflicts between countries are also accelerating. In May, the US government decided to impose additional tariffs on imports of Chinese products like electric vehicles, lithium-ion batteries and solar cells on top of existing tariffs. Specifically, the import tax on Chinese solar cells will rise from 25 percent to 50 percent.
Wang Bohua, honorary chairman of the China Photovoltaic Industry Association, said at a forum that in the first half, major global photovoltaic markets such as the United States, Europe, India and Brazil rolled out policies that increased barriers to PV product imports and launched measures to protect local production, posing challenges to global cooperation.
In October, the European Commission, the EU's executive arm, announced the conclusion of its anti-subsidy investigation, resulting in the imposition of definitive countervailing duties on Chinese-made electric vehicles. Later, the Ministry of Commerce said China had appealed to the World Trade Organization against EU's final ruling.
"China is providing the world the panel, the blade, storage facilities at a reasonable price ... the country is pushing the global energy transition," said La Camera.
Over the past decade, average power costs per kilowatt-hour of wind and solar power projects in China have fallen by over 60 percent and 80 percent, respectively, Zhang Jianhua, head of the National Energy Administration, said at a recent conference.
Such a cost reduction is meaningful in providing affordable solar panels and wind turbines to regions in need.
A report from the International Energy Agency showed that electricity consumption in emerging and developing economies is set to grow around three times the rate of advanced economies, and the low costs of wind and solar power, in particular, should make them the technologies of choice to meet rising demand if the infrastructure and regulatory frameworks are in place.
China has to date contributed over 80 percent of photovoltaic modules and 70 percent of wind power equipment. Its products have been exported to over 200 countries and regions, Zhang of NEA said.
La Camera said China plays an indispensable role in ensuring the realization of global climate goals as it is spearheading the global transition toward sustainable practices.
"IRENA places great importance on its cooperation with China and hopes that by further leveraging the role of China-IRENA cooperation office as a bridge and hub, both sides can reap more practical outcomes in areas such as policy dialogue, technical discussions and capacity building."
"China is currently at the forefront of renewable energy deployment worldwide ... It is noteworthy that approximately 40 percent of global solar capacity is located in China. Moreover, a significant portion of renewable energy jobs can be found within the country," La Camera said.
As of end-September, installed capacity of renewable energy power generating units in China reached 1.73 billion kW, a year-on-year increase of 25 percent, accounting for approximately 54.7 percent of the total installed capacity in China, latest data from the NEA showed.
This includes hydropower installations of 430 million kW, wind power installations of 480 million kW, solar power installations of 770 million kW, and biomass power installations of 46 million kW.
Meanwhile, renewable energy consumption has been steadily increasing. In the first three quarters, power generated from renewable energy sources reached 2.51 trillion kilowatt-hours, a 20.9 percent year-on-year increase, representing about 35.5 percent of total electricity.
Combined electricity generated from wind and solar power reached 1.349 trillion kWh, a 26.3 percent increase year-on-year, nearly matching the electricity consumption of the tertiary sector (1.395 trillion kWh) during the same period and surpassing electricity consumption for urban and rural residents (1.172 trillion kWh).
China is also stepping up efforts to promote the development of electric vehicles and charging infrastructure, and actively participating in global trade despite ongoing conflicts, La Camera said.
"We see that there is an incredible progress in transport - the electric vehicles, if you go into the street, you see so many green plates, which means that there are many electric vehicles ... China's technology advancement also allows for battery recharging in a very short time."
"We have seen that there is interest in hydropower, in power storage, and in hydrogen (in China). So these are all areas where the country is progressing fast. Furthermore, the country's commitment to achieving 1.2 terawatts of renewable capacity six years ahead of schedule exemplifies its dedication to environmental stewardship, providing reference to other countries that need to accelerate its renewable deployment," he said.
"China may achieve carbon neutrality well in advance of the target year of 2060," he added.
The rapid expansion of renewable energy sources has driven the need for energy storage facilities, as such intermittent energy sources cannot be managed and dispatched like traditional fossil fuels. According to the NEA, innovative energy storage systems, distinct from traditional methods like pumped storage hydropower, have served as vital "super power banks" for renewable energy, significantly bolstering power supply during peak demand.
By the end of September, China had 58.52 million kW of operational innovative energy storage facilities, marking an 86 percent increase from the end of 2023. Particularly in East China, there has been notable growth in these installations, with over 9 million kW added this year. Between January and August, the total charge and discharge capacity of innovative energy storage systems nationwide reached around 26 billion kWh.
"The country may still face challenges, as in all other countries. When putting so much renewable energy capacity into the system, we need a grid system that is interconnected, flexible, moving from one direction to another, and balancing," La Camera said.
An upgrade of the grid system is necessary to efficiently transmit and balance electron flow generated from intermittent renewable sources, he added.
To tackle these challenges, China is accelerating investments in ultrahigh-voltage direct current transmission projects, with related grid construction making solid progress. At the same time, China has introduced a new type of power system, with the primary goal of maximizing the integration of new energy sources, utilizing smart grid, and encouraging electricity generator-grid-power load-power storage integration.
"Building a diversified, clean and stable energy supply system is an important path for developing countries to enhance their energy security capabilities," Zhang of the NEA said. "We are willing to work with other countries around the world to develop more ambitious green energy development plans based on each country's endowments and development needs."
#17
China is a key partner in Indonesia's economic and trade landscape, says Arsjad Rasjid, chairman of the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, highlighting the deep-rooted and complementary nature of bilateral relations and the tangible benefits they bring to both nations.
"We share aligned values, similar cultures and a history of partnership with China. This allows us to grow together," Rasjid said, adding that this is why Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto visited China before his inauguration and prioritized it for his first state visit from Nov 8 to 10.
"As Indonesia advances toward its Golden Indonesia 2045 Vision, aiming for an 8 percent annual economic growth, China, being our top trade partner, is an indispensable partner," Rasjid said.
According to official data, China has been Indonesia's largest trade partner for 11 consecutive years, with bilateral trade reaching $139.42 billion last year. In the first eight months of this year, bilateral trade grew by 1.5 percent to $92.79 billion. China is also Indonesia's second-largest source of foreign investment, while Indonesia ranks as China's second-largest investment destination in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
Rasjid expressed appreciation for China's sustained investment, particularly under the Belt and Road Initiative, which has funneled more than $20 billion into Indonesia since 2015, significantly boosting the country's socioeconomic development.
He cited the Jakarta-Bandung High-Speed Railway - a flagship project of the BRI - linking Jakarta with the tourist hub of Bandung. Indonesia has officially relocated its capital from Jakarta, on the island of Java, to Nusantara in East Kalimantan Province.
Launched in October last year, the railway has slashed travel time from more than three hours to just 40 minutes, speeding up the flow of people and goods and greatly improving convenience for residents.
Beyond the BRI, Chinese investments in mining and other industrial areas have also significantly boosted Indonesia's industrial development.
"Chinese investment has been instrumental in strengthening Indonesia's nickel industry," Rasjid said.
New industrial chain
"Together, we have developed the Morowali Industrial Park, located in Morowali Regency, Central Sulawesi Province, which helped Indonesia develop a whole new energy industrial chain based on nickel.
"Such collaboration has elevated Indonesia's nickel export revenue from $1 billion to $30 billion over the past decade, as more value-added processing is now done locally."
This industrial growth has not only increased revenues but also created numerous local jobs and facilitated technology transfer, he said. "In the future, we hope to replicate the Morowali model across other critical minerals and commodities, such as palm oil and iron, expanding our downstream processing capabilities."
Rasjid also highlighted the potential for Chinese companies to support Indonesia's energy transition. "Indonesia is rich in resources like solar, wind and hydrogen power. Collaborating with China, a leading force in new energy-related sectors, presents vast opportunities. For example, Indonesia's rich silica reserves can be crucial for solar panel production," he said.
For Chinese companies, investing in Indonesia provides them with access to raw materials and a market of 281 million people, he said, adding that discussions are underway to position Indonesia as a sub-hub for Chinese electric vehicles and batteries, serving global markets.
"Overall, past collaboration between China and Indonesia has contributed to local economic development in Indonesia and there is still much more that could be done in the future, which means that we need to deepen and renew our relationship."
During Prabowo's visit to China, the two countries announced an upgrade of their "four-pillar" cooperation covering political, economic, people-to-people exchange and maritime aspects, to "five-pillar" cooperation, with the addition of security.
"Both China and Indonesia want to create prosperity for the people, but prosperity will not happen if there is no economic growth, and economic growth will only happen if there is peace," Rasjid said. "Deepened collaboration between China and Indonesia can also help pave the way for regional stability."
#18
China's first energy law, to fully take effect on Jan 1, 2025, is set to fortify the legal framework within the energy sector, ensuring national energy security and catalyzing the shift toward green and low-carbon practices, experts said on Monday.
The energy law was approved in early November at the 12th session of the Standing Committee of the 14th National People's Congress, China's top legislature.
It includes nine sections, covering stipulations on energy planning, development and utilization, energy market systems, energy reserves and emergency measures, energy technology innovation, supervision and management, legal responsibilities and supplementary provisions among others.
Experts noted that as the world's largest energy producer and consumer, China has long lacked a fundamental and overarching energy law. The introduction of the energy law will fill this legislative gap, significantly strengthening the legal foundation in the energy sector, ensuring national energy security and promoting green and low-carbon transformation.
Prior to this development, China had enacted individual laws in the energy domain such as laws on coal, electricity, energy conservation and renewable energy.
Wang Peng, a professor at North China Electric Power University, highlighted that the energy law will bolster the impetus for green consumption.
"It establishes clear objectives for green energy advancement and delineates the responsibilities of involved entities. Moreover, it articulates precise requirements for various renewable energy types including hydropower, wind energy, solar energy and more," Wang said.
"For instance, in the development and utilization of wind and solar energy, the law requires a combination of both centralized and distributed systems and lays a legal foundation for distributed power trading, microgrids and other innovative business models," he added.
Wang emphasized that the new energy law also fortifies institutional support for green energy consumption. Article 34 advocates for the establishment of mechanisms, such as green electricity certificates, to incentivize and propel green energy consumption.
Green electricity certificates serve as electronic IDs for green power transactions in China. Each certificate represents 1,000 kilowatt-hours of green power generated from renewable sources.
Jing Chunmei, director of the energy, green and low-carbon development research department at the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, underscored the necessity for a foundational and comprehensive energy law in China, especially in the context of evolving energy security and climate change challenges on a global scale.
The latest data from the National Energy Administration showed that the country had achieved a major milestone in renewable energy development with installations of wind and solar power generating units surpassing 1.2 billion kilowatts by end-July, which was six years ahead of schedule.
"This law was designed from a top-level perspective to establish the strategic goals and policy direction for China's energy development, clarify the rights and obligations of various entities, provide legal safeguards for China's energy security and energy transition, and help promote the establishment of a just, fair and equitable global energy system," Jing said.
#19 
It is the golden autumn moon in the south of the Yangtze River. The chicken head rice rivals the clam ball in beauty. The Euryale ferox in Tianchang city, Chuzhou city, Anhui province has fully entered the picking period. On the rippling lake, green Euryale ferox leaves lay stacked like a green plate. More than a dozen picking workers shuttle back and forth in the polder, holding sickles, and busily picking Euryale ferox fresh fruits in an orderly manner.
Tianchang city, situated between the Yangtze River and the Huaihe River, boasts a dense network of rivers and lakes. Its abundant water resources offer an ideal natural habitat for the growth of Euryale ferox. The combination of high-quality water, a suitable climate and fertile soil has nurtured Euryale ferox, producing fruits that are plump, soft and nutritious. These attributes have earned it the deep affection of consumers and have made it a popular product in Beijing, Guangdong, Fujian, Jiangsu, Shandong and other regions.
The local government keenly recognized the development potential of the Euryale ferox industry and issued a series of supporting policies. It integrated central, provincial and municipal project funds amounting to over millions of yuan to establish a special fund to support the construction of Euryale ferox planting bases, technologically transform processing enterprises and for market expansion.
"Our cooperative planted over 1,000 mu (66.67 hectares) of Euryale ferox this year. Previously, the fruits were peeled manually. However, since the power supply company installed a high-capacity transformer for us, we have started using machines for production. We have implemented pumping irrigation, dehulling, shelling and drying, which has brought us peace of mind and significantly improved our yield and efficiency," said Zheng Changhong, head of Tianchang Hongfeng Euryale ferox Professional Cooperative. Thanks to the new irrigation equipment and electrification processing technology, Tianchang city now boasts numerous processing enterprises, spanning from primary to intensive processing. This has not only enriched the market supply but also significantly increased the added value of Euryale ferox, generating considerable economic benefits for the local area.
With the development of the industry, power consumption for irrigation, processing, and cold storage has significantly increased. To ensure the safety of power supply and usage in the planting park, the Chuzhou Power Supply Company of the State Grid, while adapting to local conditions, established a Communist Party member service team to provide "one-to-one" power supply services for two large irrigation and drainage stations and six small irrigations in the park. Additionally, over 120,000 yuan was invested to upgrade the power lines of the Huawei and Chenzhuang irrigation stations. Through deep understanding of the power consumption of processing enterprises, the transformer capacity was increased in Longgang and Longxitai districts. A 400 kilovolt-ampere transformer was introduced for the Euryale ferox market, and all conductors of 35 square meters were replaced with 120 square meters of insulated wires, thereby ensuring reliable power supply for rural specialty industries. In the grower community, a WeChat group has been set up in the Communist Party member service team's platform area to guide users in safe electricity usage, allowing customers to conveniently pay bills and handle electricity-related matters without leaving their homes.
It is understood that the average yield of nearly 100,000 mu of Euryale ferox in Tianchang city can reach 150 kilograms per mu, yielding a benefit of over 3,000 yuan per mu. The total output value from the integration of primary, secondary and tertiary industries is expected to exceed two billion yuan, potentially increasing the income of each villager by over 20,000 yuan. In recent years, seven Euryale ferox professional cooperatives have been established and six brands registered. Notably, "Furonggang Euryale ferox" has become a national geographical indication certification trademark. Cooperatives lease farmers' contracted land and engage in the Euryale ferox processing industry, providing not only employment opportunities but also boosting farmers' income. This small Euryale ferox fruit has emerged as a "golden bean" for farmers to achieve prosperity.
With the development of characteristic industries, the exceptional people and pristine scenery of Longgang have gradually garnered the attention of tourists. Here, the millennium-old street is surrounded by crystal-clear waters that flow towards Gaoyou Lake, where the vast lake is surrounded by misty waves. Wind turbines stand tall on the shore and new energy sources beautifully depict a harmonious coexistence of modernity and nature. Furthermore, Longgang has preserved the eighth branch of the Chinese People's Anti-Japanese Military and Political University, making this millennium-old town a renowned red tourism attraction in the Yangtze River Delta region.
To meet the growing demand for rural tourism development, the State Grid Chuzhou Power Supply Company has constructed a flexible DC interconnection system for multiple substations in the town. By integrating renewable energy and smart grid technology, it seamlessly connects photovoltaic panels, energy storage units, charging stations and other equipment within the scenic area, ensuring 100 percent on-site consumption of newly generated energy and facilitating a clean and low-carbon energy transition in the area. On the square of the Eighth Branch of the Anti-Japanese War University, the installation of smart streetlights, photovoltaic seats and other devices creates an intelligent interactive application scenario with the scenic area, offering tourists a convenient low-carbon lifestyle experience and showcasing a new model for efficient green energy utilization.
Agriculture, tourism and rural areas are thriving. State Grid Chuzhou Power Supply Company will continue to focus on the development needs of local characteristic industries, providing accurate power services that are efficient, fast and effective, allowing residents to feel a sense of access to electricity and happiness. With high-quality power services, the company will paint a new picture of prosperous industries and affluent people.
#20
China's increasingly close relationship with Brazil could prove key to generating more renewable energy in both countries and, in time, address the global climate crisis, experts said.
"Exchange of knowledge and technologies between China and Brazil can be mutually beneficial, with Brazil contributing its expertise in biomass and hydropower, while China brings innovations in solar panels, batteries and smart grid infrastructure," said Evandro Menezes de Carvalho, a senior fellow at Peking University's Institute for Global Cooperation and Understanding and a coordinator of the Brazil-China Research Group at Brazilian think tank Getulio Vargas Foundation School of Law.
Brazil has emerged as a top destination for Chinese foreign direct investment, particularly in sectors that can help the country diversify and secure its clean energy supply chains.
Between 2007 and 2023, Brazil was the fourth-largest investment destination for China after the United States, Australia and the United Kingdom, according to the Brazil-China Business Council. In 2023, China's investments in Brazil reached $1.73 billion, a 33 percent jump from 2022.
Almost three-quarters of those investments were focused on projects related to renewable energy, sustainability and decarbonization. These investments can help multiple goals, de Carvalho noted. On the one hand, they can support Brazil's growth and economic diversification. On the other, they can help diversify China's renewable energy supply chains, he said.
China is a leader in the green economy transition, while Brazil has historically had a role as a guardian of global natural resources, given its vast Amazon rainforest, de Carvalho said.
"This creates an opportunity for cooperation, as both countries share the need to reconcile economic growth with environmental preservation," he said.
Important location
Brazil is an important location for green projects because it has one of the cleanest energy matrices among the G20 nations. Almost half of Brazil's energy supply and 80 percent of its electricity is sourced from renewables, according to the World Bank.
"Sino-Brazilian cooperation in clean technologies allows Chinese companies to expand their business and technology in Brazil while helping the country increase its production of sustainable energy," said de Carvalho.
As it pushes a new plan for industrialization, Brazil is also moving ahead with significant energy transition. China's role in this process can be significant, said Javier Vadell, an international relations professor at Brazil's Pontifical Catholic University of Minas Gerais.
In August, Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva launched the National Energy Transition Policy that aims to secure more than $364 billion in investments in the green economy over the next decade.
It is not just green energy projects that drive the relationship between Brazil and China, which are both part of the G20 grouping. Vadell said the bilateral trade relationship is also poised to continue growing on other fronts. Brazil is a major seller of agricultural products, minerals and meat products.
Brazil's relationship with China has always been good, Vadell noted. It was the first country in Latin America to sign a strategic partnership agreement with China.
Both countries have signed up to the Paris Agreement and vowed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
China has committed to reaching peak emissions before 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality before 2060. Investing in Brazil's renewable energy projects can help Beijing meet those goals, said de Carvalho.
#21
Chinese investment in Brazil has grown significantly in recent years as bilateral relations have deepened.
China's presence is especially felt in Brazil's energy and infrastructure sectors. A recent analysis by Brazilian digital media outlet Poder360 estimated such investment from Chinese enterprises alone has exceeded $51 billion.
Earlier this year, State Grid Corp of China won a 30-year franchise agreement to build a 1,500-kilometer transmission line in northeast Brazil.
"With an investment of 20 billion reais ($3.4 billion), the project will supply 5 million kilowatts of power to regions including the capital Brasilia and is scheduled to be put into operation in 2029," said Wang Xiaogang, chief technical officer at State Grid Brazil Holding.
State Grid entered the Brazilian market in 2010 after the 2008 financial crisis, said Wang. Three Spanish companies in need of capital were trying to get rid of their seven concession power companies in Brazil.
"We took into account that Brazil has a stable political environment, a promising economy, as well as a stable and attractive power transmission regulatory policy with legal protection, and that power transmission is the core business of SGCC and in line with our international development strategy," said Wang.
After due diligence and arduous negotiations, SGCC successfully won the contract for approximately $1 billion for 100 percent of the equity in the seven companies.
"In 2010, State Grid Brazil Holding Company was established, and the acquisition was completed," Wang said. "We took advantage of the opportunity to enter the Brazilian market, laying a solid foundation for our future development here, thus beginning our grand journey in the Brazilian power industry."
Since then, State Grid has won about a dozen power-transmission projects in Brazil. "Among them, the most noteworthy is the Belo Monte project that has been put into operation," said Wang.
The 2,500-km Belo Monte ultrahigh voltage (UHV) transmission project, which started in 2014, was completed in two phases, both ahead of schedule. Chinese President Xi Jinping witnessed the signings of the agreement on three occasions between 2014 and 2019.
State Grid's operations in Brazil are part of its global success.
"We have the world's leading and core technology in UHV transmission and a wide range of construction and operation experience," said Wang. "For more than 20 years, State Grid has maintained the longest safety record of the world's ultra-large power grid and has built 35 UHV transmission projects to form the world's largest power grid with the strongest transmission capacity and the largest scale of new energy grid connection."
The success of the Belo Monte project laid a solid foundation for winning the new Brazil Northeast UHV transmission project, which signifies another leap for clean energy transmission, Wang said.
"The project will integrate and transmit clean energy such as wind power, solar energy and hydropower in northeastern and northern Brazil to central Brazil. It will promote Brazil's clean and low-carbon energy transformation and drive Brazil's economic and social development," he said. "It will also serve as a new breakthrough project in the next golden decade of the Belt and Road Initiative envisioned by President Xi Jinping."
While State Grid is involved in power transmission in Brazil, State Power Investment Corp of China is producing power in the market.
The company arrived in Brazil in 2017 and has since invested 14 billion reais in the country, according to Adriana Waltrick, the CEO of SPIC Brasil. It is a long-term investment company that began its expansion in Brazil in 2017 through the acquisition of Pacific Hydro, she said.
Waltrick said they started with 58 megawatts and today assets total approximately 4 gigawatts. "Currently, we are the sixth-largest private generator in the country, and we aim to be among the top three by 2030," she said.
The first major project was securing the right to operate the Sao Simao Hydroelectric Power Plant for 30 years, she said. It remains the company's largest renewable asset in Brazil to date. Since 2019, more than 1.2 billion reais have been invested over 10 years to modernize the plants, including updating the control system from analog to digital, according to Waltrick.
In 2021, the company started to participate in the natural gas project, Gas Natural Acu, in partnership with Prumo, BP, Siemens and Siemens Energy. That participation aligned with the company's strategy to support Brazil's energy transition with a focus on renewable expansion while ensuring energy security, she said.
In June, the company invested 2.4 billion reais in solar power plants in the northeastern states of Ceara and Piaui, and in November, the company announced a partnership involving the Luiz Gonzaga solar complex with a 400 million reais investment in Pernambuco state.
In partnership with China, the company is also studying the feasibility of producing, storing and transporting green hydrogen from offshore wind sources in ports in Rio de Janeiro and Ceara.
"In summary, we believe in the diversity and complementarity of energy sources," said Waltrick. "Through our partnership with China, we have been exploring new generation possibilities, such as hybridization and integrating batteries into the system, running models and considering pilot projects."
With China expanding investment in energy transition and technology, those projects will contribute to Brazil's new industrialization.
"I am convinced that Brazil can lead the energy transition globally and be at the forefront alongside other major nations such as China," she said.
#22
Chinese Vice-Premier Ding Xuexiang said Tuesday that the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities is the cornerstone of strengthening global climate governance.
Ding, President Xi Jinping's Special Representative and a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks when addressing the World Leaders Climate Action Summit during the 29th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP29) in Baku, Azerbaijan.
He conveyed Xi's good wishes for Azerbaijan to host the summit, stressing that the Chinese president highly appreciated Azerbaijan's positive efforts and contributions to promoting global climate governance as the COP29 presidency, and wished the conference a complete success.
Noting that this year marks the 30th anniversary of the entry into force of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Ding said the parties must work together to achieve a satisfactory outcome of COP29 at the new starting point, meeting the high expectations of the international community.
He said that developed countries should show greater ambition, take the lead in emission reduction, and set earlier carbon neutrality targets, while developing countries should also make their best efforts within their capacities.
Addressing climate change ultimately requires a fundamental transformation in development models, Ding said, adding that the international community should work together to accelerate the energy transition in a fair, orderly, and equitable manner, maintain the stability of the new energy industrial and supply chains, promote accessibility and innovation in green products and technologies, and accelerate the cultivation of new quality productive forces.
Ding noted that funding and technology are crucial to improving the ability to cope with climate change and called on developed countries to increase financial support and technology transfer to developing countries.
He expressed hope that the conference would set a more ambitious new funding goal to provide confidence and support for the next phase of global climate action.
China is willing to work with all parties, guided by the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind, to jointly protect our shared planet and build a clean and beautiful world, he added.
#23
China's three State-owned oil giants are ramping up efforts to strengthen international collaboration in oil and gas development, with an increasing focus on transitioning to green energy, said industry experts and company executives.
The companies, collectively known as the "big three", signed contracts worth a total of $488.3 billion during the China International Import Expo (CIIE) held over the past seven years, forging partnerships that not only strengthen international collaboration in oil and gas resource development, but have also provided strong support for China's transition to greener energy in the oil and gas sector, they said.
While China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec) has signed contracts totaling more than $285 billion over the past seven years, China National Petroleum Corp (CNPC) has secured procurement contracts worth over $127.3 billion with 190 international suppliers, underscoring their commitment to deepening open cooperation.
China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) saw its cumulative contract value over the past seven years surpass $76 billion, with signed contracts covering a wide range of sectors across the oil and gas industry, including crude oil, natural gas, deepwater oil and gas equipment, and advanced technical services, reflecting a continuous optimization of the procurement structure, it said.
Dai Houliang, chairman of CNPC, said as the energy industry is accelerating its shift toward cleaner, low-carbon, efficient and diversified solutions, the sector should expand oil and gas cooperation to jointly secure global energy supplies while emphasizing the importance of increasing openness and collaboration to accelerate transformation and upgrade efforts.
Foreign oil and gas companies also expressed their willingness to collaborate with the Chinese government, industry partners and local communities to support a low-carbon future in China.
"Throughout Chevron's history in China, partnership is core to everything we do," said Xiong Shu, president of Chevron China.
Chevron has built a solid presence in China over the past decades and it remains committed to working closely across the energy value chain and developing innovative solutions together with its partners here in China, said Xiong.
"Working with our local partners including CNPC, we have been collaborating to produce and supply energy from both onshore and offshore China, participating in a wide range of activities across the entire energy value chain," she said.
An analyst said the ever-growing cumulative contract volume by the "big three" Chinese oil companies at the CIIE underscores China's growing commitment to global energy cooperation.
"As the global energy landscape undergoes profound transformation, with a shift toward cleaner, low-carbon, more efficient and diversified energy sources, the emphasis on expanding oil and gas cooperation remains critical," said Wang Lining, director of the oil market department under the economics and technology research institute of CNPC.
"In this context, the 'big three' are not only focusing on securing oil and gas supplies, but also play a pivotal role in ensuring global energy security amid growing demand and geopolitical uncertainty," Wang said.
"Their increased efforts in liquefied natural gas (LNG) imports, in particular, highlight their strategic push to diversify energy resources and meet the dual goals of energy security and sustainability. This aligns with China's broader energy strategy, which increasingly incorporates clean and efficient solutions alongside traditional fossil fuel investments."
During the recently concluded CIIE this year, Sinopec signed a 15-year deal with TotalEnergies for 2 million metric tons of LNG annually for 15 years from 2028, which is expected to further advance the country's clean energy goals.
In China, natural gas is a key component of green energy transition as it mitigates the intermittency of rapidly growing renewable energies and helps reduce greenhouse gas emissions when it replaces coal in electricity production.
#24
Global mining enterprises are stepping up efforts to expand their presence in China, attracted by the country's vast market and recent moves toward broader economic opening, said company executives and industry experts.
As China continues to liberalize trade and streamline foreign investment policies, international mining firms are eyeing an increasingly accessible market to tap into growing demand for minerals and metals, they say.
Jakob Stausholm, CEO of Rio Tinto Group, said during an interview on the sidelines of the ongoing China International Import Expo in Shanghai, that China's commitment to reducing carbon emissions and investing in clean energy technologies sets a benchmark for other nations and that Rio Tinto is eager to strengthen its collaboration with Chinese partners to support and contribute to these sustainable initiatives.
"China's rapid development in renewable energy sectors, including solar and wind power, is exemplary on a global scale," he said. "China accounts for more than half of Rio Tinto's global production, reinforcing the importance of the Chinese market in Rio Tinto's growth strategy. China's economic resilience and 'admirable' energy transition efforts fuel demand not just for iron ore, but also for aluminum and copper, all of which are the company's major business focus."
In recent years, China has relaxed foreign ownership restrictions, reduced tariffs and increased transparency in regulatory frameworks, signaling a commitment to opening its economy further to international players while drawing renewed interest from global mining giants, as they seek to deepen partnerships with Chinese companies and establish a stronger foothold in the market.
An analyst said China's infrastructure push, coupled with rising demand for high-grade metals, positions the country as an attractive destination for global mining firms looking to secure stable, long-term revenue streams.
China's continued drive for greener technologies, including electric vehicles and renewable energy, is expected to increase demand for lithium, cobalt, and other critical minerals essential for battery production, said Zhao Xiangbin, chief strategist at Beijing Gold and Forex Fortune Investment Management.
"With China's rapid industrialization and urbanization, demand for commodities like iron ore, copper and lithium remains robust. China's commitment to open trade policies gives the companies greater confidence to invest more heavily in the country," he said. "As the government focuses on enhancing supply chains for these resources, there will be more opportunities for foreign mining companies to collaborate in areas such as sustainable mining practices, resource exploration and technology exchange."
China accounted for over 50 percent of global metal consumption in 2023, according to data from the World Bureau of Metal Statistics, underscoring the appeal of this market to mining firms worldwide.
According to BHP, as the world's manufacturing powerhouse, China has the highest global demand for crude steel, with the market experiencing remarkable growth since 2010. In 2023, China's crude steel demand reached 911 million metric tons, up an estimated 50 percent from 609 million tons 13 years earlier, it said.
Rio Tinto recently strengthened its partnerships with Chinese firms, including a joint venture with Aluminum Corp of China and China Baowu Steel Group Corp to develop a high-grade iron ore mine, which aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in China's steel industry when it starts production by late 2025.
Rio Tinto's increased reliance on Chinese suppliers globally and its confidence in China's economy is not alone. Brazilian mining company Vale shares a similar perspective.
The company signed a memorandum of understanding with Ansteel Group Corp during the CIIE to jointly pursue the development and application of low-carbon steelmaking solutions that could reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
"Vale has a long-term commitment to the Chinese market and strong belief in the prospects of China's long-term growth and of Brazil-China economic and trade cooperation," said Gustavo Niskier, global director of international affairs at Vale. "We remain dedicated to continuously supplying high-quality mineral products and innovative low-carbon solutions to China, aiming to support China's iron and steel industry in accelerating the development of new quality productive forces and achieving a green transformation."
#25
China's deepest geothermal scientific exploration well, deployed by China Petrochemical Corporation, was officially completed on Thursday, the company said.
As the country's first deep geothermal scientific exploration well exceeding 5,000 meters, located in Haikou, Hainan province, the project represents a breakthrough in deep geothermal resource exploration in South China, they said.
This project aims to advance high-temperature geothermal applications for power generation, cooling, and integrated uses in southern parts of China, supporting the region's green and low-carbon energy transition, they added.
Completed in April at a depth of 5,200 meters, it set a record for the deepest geothermal exploration well in China and Asia. The project will further reveal the mechanisms of deep geothermal formation and enrichment in the region and explore its high-temperature geothermal potential.
The company, also known as Sinopec, plans to develop it into an integrated research, industry, and application platform and demonstration base for high-temperature geothermal resources in South China. Sinopec will also explore further applications of geothermal resources, advancing geothermal exploration and development theory and technology across southern China and beyond.
Sinopec, China's largest developer of geothermal energy, currently has a strong presence in the geothermal sector. To date, the company has developed a geothermal heating capacity covering over 100 million square meters, it said.
#26
Shenzhen's new carbon trading platform marks a significant step toward China's push for carbon neutrality, as it will revolutionize carbon trading and set up a comprehensive system to measure and label greenhouse gas emissions in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, experts said.
The recently launched platform - Shenzhen Green Exchange - aims to provide a transparent and efficient marketplace for carbon credits, connecting businesses committed to reducing their carbon footprints with those seeking to offset their emissions.
"The launch of the SGE marks a new step forward in Shenzhen's efforts to become a model for building a beautiful China," said Lai Gaoyu, chairman of the SGE.
"Looking ahead, the SGE will continue to contribute the wisdom and strength of its people to fostering a thriving green economy in Shenzhen and achieving its carbon goals."
Lai said the platform is expected to stimulate investment in green technologies and sustainable practices across various sectors, from energy and manufacturing to transportation and agriculture.
It will leverage advanced technology to ensure accurate tracking and verification of carbon reductions, fostering trust and integrity within the carbon market, he added.
Along with the launch of the platform, several key documents, including a white paper detailing Shenzhen's innovative approaches to carbon finance and a list of pilot projects focused on establishing near-zero carbon emission zones, were released.
In addition, a comprehensive system for measuring and labeling greenhouse gas emissions associated with products and services was introduced. The system, developed in collaboration with all relevant authorities in the GBA, leading experts and institutions, employs rigorous scientific standards to accurately calculate carbon footprints for various products, including drones, projectors, medical devices and consumer electronics.
Shenzhen has been endeavoring to serve as a model for other places seeking to implement effective climate action strategies.
However, those efforts cannot be easy, Zhao Tianshou, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) specializing in energy science and engineering thermophysics, said at a recent forum.
China's progress toward its green and low-carbon energy transition is lagging behind schedule, primarily due to the intermittent nature of renewable energy sources like solar and wind power, Zhao said.
"To overcome this hurdle, the adoption of vanadium flow batteries could be a promising long-duration energy storage solution due to its safety, flexible duration and scalability, long life span and broad applicability across various sectors," Zhao said.
Zou Caineng, an academician from the CAS and chief scientist of the CNPC Shenzhen New Energies Research Institute, proposed a four-part strategy for China's energy transition - clean fossil fuels, expanded renewables, coordinated distributed generation and smart energy management, driven by technological innovation, including green hydrogen and advanced energy storage.
"This transition will shift China's energy structure from carbon-based to zero-carbon sources, integrating oil and gas companies with renewables, achieving carbon neutrality, strengthening energy security, and accelerating green development, ultimately resolving the traditional trade-offs between energy security, affordability, and cleanliness," Zou added.
#27
Under the Belt and Road Initiative, China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have forged a robust partnership in the energy sector, achieving notable successes. The cooperation is anchored in the principle of "mutual benefit and prosperity," fostering cooperation that spans energy development, technical services, and cultural exchange. The partnership has not only solidified the strategic ties between China and the UAE but also injected robust momentum into the transformation of the global energy industry.
Strategic collaboration
The cooperation between CNPC and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), dates back to 2007, when its subsidiary, China Petroleum Engineering & Construction Corporation (CPECC), became contractor for the Abu Dhabi Crude Oil Pipeline project. Initially, the UAE served as a transit hub for CNPC, facilitating material supply to the broader Middle East and North Africa region. However, a strategic partnership agreement signed in 2012 significantly expanded their cooperation. Since 2013, CNPC and ADNOC have formalized partnerships across major oilfields like Al Yasat, Onshore, Umm Shaif & Nasr, and Lower Zakum, establishing broad collaboration in oil and gas exploration and development, engineering, equipment supply, and technical services. A renewed strategic agreement in 2024 has ushered in a new phase of this partnership, with CNPC reinforcing its technical prowess and earning the UAE's trust.
Comprehensive partnership
CNPC's partnership with the UAE spans the entire oil and gas value chain, encompassing exploration, development, equipment exports, engineering, and technical services. The corporation's extensive activities contribute significantly to the UAE's economic and industrial growth. Currently, CNPC's operations in the UAE include investments in oil trade, natural gas supply, equipment logistics, and research. Notably in 2018, BGP, a subsidiary of CNPC, entered into a contract with ADNOC for the world's largest onshore and offshore 3D seismic survey, marking a significant milestone in the China-UAE cooperation. CNPC has been instrumental in boosting the UAE's oil production. CPECC, another wholly-owned subsidiary of CNPC, has helped raise the capacity of ADNOC's BAB Onshore Oilfield from 1.4 million barrels to 1.8 million barrels per day.
Clean energy, sustainability
As the UAE leads efforts toward a greener economy, CNPC is actively supporting the country's sustainability goals through joint projects in renewable energy, including solar and LNG initiatives. CNPC's subsidiary CPECC has participated in constructing a Dubai solar power project, which is a key component of the UAE's green energy strategy. This project has become one of the world's largest, aiming to supply clean energy to 320,000 households and reducing 1.6 million tons of carbon emissions annually. The shared vision of both countries for sustainable development has widened the scope of their cooperation, with CNPC aiming to pursue additional renewable energy projects that contribute to the global energy transition.
Cultural, talent exchange
The partnership between CNPC and the UAE goes beyond energy, extending into cultural and talent exchanges. Each year, CNPC selects managers to be trained in the UAE, learning about local practices, while UAE delegations visit China to enhance understanding of corporate culture and management. These exchanges foster trust, promote cultural integration, and reinforce the collaborative foundation between the sides.
A shared vision for future
The cooperation between CNPC and the UAE underscores both nations' technological and managerial expertise, contributing to global energy stability and innovation. Together, China and the UAE have set a standard for international partnerships in the energy sector, advancing sustainable development and supporting the transition toward a low-carbon economy. CNPC remains committed to the principle of "mutual benefit and prosperity" as it strengthens ties with the UAE across energy, technology, and cultural spheres. As the world shifts toward a greener future, CNPC and the UAE are well positioned to open a new chapter in global energy cooperation, elevating the Belt and Road Initiative to new heights.
#28
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp (Sinopec) signed a long-term liquefied natural gas (LNG) supply framework agreement with TotalEnergies on Monday, this agreement will supply approximately 2 million metric tons of LNG per year to Sinopec for 15 years starting in 2028.
The agreement marks a key step in advancing the strategic cooperation framework the two companies signed in May, highlighting their joint commitment to exploring opportunities across the full energy value chain to support the global energy transition.
Sinopec sees TotalEnergies as a crucial partner in the company's natural gas strategy, this agreement will further strengthen their strategic cooperation in the gas sector, said Niu Shuanwen, vice president of Sinopec.
Stéphane Michel, president of gas, renewables, and power at TotalEnergies, noted that China is the world's largest LNG importer while TotalEnergies is pleased to become one of Sinopec's LNG suppliers under this agreement.
This partnership underscores the competitiveness of TotalEnergies' LNG business, and we will continue to strengthen our presence in Asia's LNG long-term contract market to meet the region's growing energy demand, said Michel.
#29
China's energy experts and business leaders are calling for accelerated development of green methanol, underscoring its potential as a renewable fuel to support the country's goal of achieving carbon neutrality before 2060.
Li Shufu, chairman of Geely Holding Group, emphasized green methanol's transformative potential within China's renewable energy landscape.
"Developing green methanol is not only crucial for China's energy security and green growth but also an effective pathway for achieving carbon neutrality and energy self-sufficiency," Li said at the Green Methanol Energy Industry Development Forum held on Tuesday in Hohhot, Inner Mongolia autonomous region.
He noted that Geely has been exploring methanol as an energy source for more than 20 years, viewing it as a sustainable solution that can be produced from surplus wind and solar power, reducing dependence on fossil fuels.
Li also outlined Geely's plans to leverage methanol in various sectors, including commercial and maritime applications, where it provides an efficient, low-emission alternative to conventional fuels.
Highlighting recent advances, Li said that Geely's methanol-powered vehicles offer "significant reductions in emissions compared to traditional diesel trucks", which has positioned them as a viable choice for high-emission sectors such as logistics and public transportation.
Compared with diesel trucks that meet the National VI standards, which are the strictest in China, Geely's methanol-hydrogen EVs significantly reduce emissions. They have achieved a 98 percent reduction in particulate matter, an 88 percent decrease in carbon monoxide, and an 82 percent reduction in nitrogen oxides.
Geely has just kicked off a green methanol project in Alxa League, Inner Mongolia, with an annual production capacity of 500,000 metric tons, starting with a first phase of 100,000 tons.
Li said the project is expected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 150,000 tons per year, equivalent to reforesting 150,000 acres of land.
Shi Jianhua, deputy secretary-general of the China EV100, an automotive think tank, argued that methanol as a fuel is particularly suited for commercial vehicles, where cost-effectiveness and reliability are paramount.
According to Shi, methanol-based solutions "can meet the operational demands of commercial vehicle users better than battery-electric technology, especially for long-haul routes".
He advocated a diversified approach to vehicle electrification, including methanol, hydrogen and hybrids, to meet China's extensive logistics needs.
Yao Chunde, deputy director of the Methanol Vehicle Expert Advisory Committee under the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, pointed out China's strategic advantage as the world's largest methanol producer.
He emphasized methanol's potential as a replacement for petroleum-based fuels, particularly in transportation. Yao said that "expanding methanol's role in vehicle fuels will drive China's energy transition and reduce reliance on imported oil".
China currently accounts for two-thirds of global methanol demand and its shipyards are building 70 percent of the world's methanol-powered vessels.
"With three-quarters of new renewable methanol capacity expected to be added in China by 2026, the next few years will be pivotal for the methanol industry," said Greg Dolan, CEO of the Methanol Institute.
#30
China on Wednesday released a set of guidelines on boosting the use of renewable energy amid efforts to cut fossil fuel consumption in green energy transition.
The guidelines, issued by the National Development and Reform Commission and five other government departments, outline China's goal to replace traditional fuel with renewable energy.
The guidelines note that China's renewable energy consumption is expected to reach the equivalent of more than 1.1 billion tonnes of standard coal next year, and to exceed the equivalent of 1.5 billion tonnes of standard coal by 2030.
The country aims to enhance its energy capacity to ensure the safe and reliable supply of renewable energy.
More renewable energy will be used in industrial enterprises, transportation, buildings, agriculture, rural areas and infrastructure.
#31
Phiona Nyamutoro, minister of State for Mineral Development in Uganda, spoke highly of China's role in promoting global energy transition at the ongoing Third Belt and Road Energy Ministerial Conference held in Qingdao, Shandong province.
"Creative cooperation with China and initiatives like the Belt and Road Energy Partnership will help us boost our drive toward energy transition across the world. We hope that we get to tap into many opportunities from China, like technological transfer, research and also green financing," she said.
The partnership was initiated by China's National Energy Administration and its membership has expanded to 34 as of date.
"We are still doing a lot in terms of our mineral development in Uganda. We have so far 58 discovered minerals and we have barely tapped into even a quarter of the potential that we have. There are a lot of open windows and opportunities that we would love China to come and tap to in terms of investment, research, and technological transfer," Nyamutoro said.
#32
Phiona Nyamutoro, minister of State for Mineral Development in Uganda, spoke highly of China's role in promoting global energy transition at the ongoing Third Belt and Road Energy Ministerial Conference held in Qingdao, Shandong province.
"Creative cooperation with China and initiatives like the Belt and Road Energy Partnership will help us boost our drive toward energy transition across the world. We hope that we get to tap into many opportunities from China, like technological transfer, research and also green financing," she said.
The partnership was initiated by China's National Energy Administration and its membership has expanded to 34 as of date.
"We are still doing a lot in terms of our mineral development in Uganda. We have so far 58 discovered minerals and we have barely tapped into even a quarter of the potential that we have. There are a lot of open windows and opportunities that we would love China to come and tap to in terms of investment, research, and technological transfer," Nyamutoro said.
#33
The number of participants in the Belt and Road Energy Partnership has expanded to 34 countries, CCTV News reported on Thursday.
The coordination will focus on energy security, energy transition, and contribute a Chinese solution to global energy governance reform.
Since the inception of the Belt and Road Initiative 11 years ago, China has collaborated on green energy projects with over 100 countries and regions, according to an action plan on green energy cooperation among countries involved in the Belt and Road Initiative.
The action plan was released at the third Belt and Road Energy Ministerial Conference held in Qingdao, East China's Shandong province, on Oct 23.
China has contributed over 80 percent of photovoltaic equipment and 70 percent of wind power equipment for global energy low-carbon transformation and new energy development, said Hu Ming, head of the Belt and Road Energy Partnership Secretariat Office.
This has led to a cumulative 60 and 80 percent decrease in the average generation cost of wind and photovoltaic power projects respectively over the past decade, Hu said.
It is projected that the member countries of the Belt and Road Energy Partnership will collaborate to enhance green energy security capabilities over the next five years, according to the action plan.
They are expected to focus on innovative cooperation in key cutting-edge technologies such as hydrogen energy, new energy storage, and advanced nuclear power, while exploring the establishment of an international cooperation research platform for clean energy and strengthening capacity building in the green energy sector, said the plan.
#34
China National Offshore Oil Corp recently completed the world's longest-ever shipment of liquid hydrogen, which traveled from Europe to China and was completed on Tuesday, marking a significant milestone in global energy transport.
The shipment by the Chinese energy giant highlights the potential of hydrogen as a sustainable energy source and the country's leadership in advancing hydrogen logistics and clean energy technology, said industry experts.
Utilizing specialized insulated tanks, the shipment, which traveled over 10,000 nautical miles (18,500 kilometers) from Rotterdam, the Netherlands, to Yantian Port in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, emphasizes the potential of hydrogen as a sustainable energy resource, the operator said.
"The successful completion of the world's longest liquid hydrogen sea transport demonstration project marks China's entry into the pioneering phase of developing the global long-distance, transoceanic hydrogen transport and utilization industry," said Wang Lining, director of the oil market department of the Economics and Technology Research Institute under China National Petroleum Corp.
"Transporting liquid hydrogen nearly 20,000 km demonstrates the potential for scaling hydrogen logistics across long distances, which is essential for fostering international hydrogen trade. The use of specialized insulated tanks highlights the technological advancements necessary to ensure the safe and efficient movement of hydrogen, setting a precedent for future projects," said Wang. "This milestone also signals China's increasing commitment to hydrogen as part of its decarbonization strategy, potentially positioning the country as a major hub for hydrogen imports and usage, further accelerating global hydrogen adoption."
Xiao Li, chief designer at the research and development center of CNOOC Gas & Power Group, a subsidiary of CNOOC, said the company has been accelerating research efforts on the long-distance transoceanic liquid hydrogen transportation industry chain, including studies on transportation process technology, equipment technology, safety protocols, as well as international policies and regulations, to ensure the safe unloading of the first liquid hydrogen shipment.
Amid China's ambitious goal of achieving carbon peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060, the country has been accelerating efforts with rapid advancements in new energy resources.
While hydrogen energy, considered the pinnacle of sustainable and competitive energy sources for carbon reduction, is poised to assume a crucial role globally, its development is confronted with various challenges, from disparities in the acquisition of said resource to the elevated costs of energy transition, said Wang.
Liquid hydrogen, recognized for its high energy density and efficient transport capabilities, is becoming the favored solution for meeting future large-scale, long-distance energy transport demands, he said.
According to CNOOC, transport technology continues to be a key factor in shaping the industry's future due to hydrogen's unique physical characteristics. The capacity to effectively transport hydrogen over long distances is anticipated to provide a strategic edge in the energy market, it said.
The company has been conducting extensive research and increasing efforts on developments focused on the industrial technology system as well as regulatory frameworks, taking advantage of its expertise in LNG trade to overcome the technical challenges of transoceanic hydrogen transport and pioneer an industrial model for international trade.
In the face of the global hydrogen market's development, the cost differences in clean hydrogen production between countries are gradually widening, creating trade opportunities between nations with surplus low-cost hydrogen production capacity and those that need to import it, said CNOOC.
Major economies like the EU, the US and Japan are actively engaging in the international trade of hydrogen and hydrogen-based fuels, connecting global hydrogen supply and demand through trade, it said.
According to the International Renewable Energy Agency, over 30 percent of hydrogen production will be used for international trade by 2050.
As the world's largest hydrogen producer, with an annual output of up to 40 million metric tons, China's successful implementation of the world's longest liquid hydrogen sea transport demonstration project provides new momentum for advancing its innovation and industrial chains and exploring hydrogen trade opportunities, said CNOOC.
#35
The photovoltaic sector is in need of stricter measures to curb below-cost pricing practices that are destabilizing the solar power market, as recent falling prices have led to intense competition that impacts the entire sector, an industry association said.
The China Photovoltaic Industry Association (CPIA) said on Monday that the sector should enhance self-discipline, avoid unhealthy competition, resolve supply-demand imbalances and eliminate excess capacity in an orderly manner.
It hosted a special forum in Shanghai at which industry representatives agreed on measures to promote fair competition, phase out inefficient capacity and ensure sustainable development.
Since last year, the photovoltaic upstream polysilicon sector has faced a "price collapse" due to supply-demand imbalances, resulting in significant losses for companies. Currently, prices of polysilicon, wafers, cells and modules have fallen below cash production costs, putting pressure on the entire value chain.
Liu Hanyuan, chairman of new energy company Tongwei Co Ltd, said the slowdown in industry growth has led to oversupply and falling prices, exacerbated by intensified competition. As a result, each segment is incurring losses, with the extended supply chain amplifying these challenges.
Despite a threefold expansion in capacity, industry profit margins have decreased by about 70 percent, according to media outlet Yicai.com.
"The root of unhealthy competition lies in the limited market growth," said Lu Chuan, chairman of Chint Solar, suggesting companies restrain expansion and pricing to avoid price wars, while industry associations and regulatory bodies should guide production capacity and pricing mechanisms to stabilize the sector.
When existing markets can no longer support the survival and growth of more companies, lower-tier competition becomes an inevitable choice. However, this type of competition fails to drive overall industry progress. Instead, it leads to resource misallocation, stifles innovation and ultimately harms the sector's sustainable development, Lu said.
Analysts recommend stabilizing the market by promoting advanced technologies through demonstration projects and moving beyond low-bid competition strategies. They emphasize that strengthening self-discipline and implementing regulatory oversight will be essential to achieving sustainable growth and protecting the vitality of the industry.
Nicholas Lua, an analyst at global consultancy Rystad Energy, said the global solar market currently faces an oversupply situation.
Market consolidation in China could well be on the horizon as smaller and less efficient solar manufacturers exit the market, he said.
The third quarter has already seen multiple small domestic manufacturers undergo restructuring, and more such examples are expected in the coming months, Lua said.
While China has been at a pivotal moment in both national and global energy transitions, with rapid development seen in renewable energy in the country buoyed by supportive policies, competitive advancements in the domestic supply chain and a reliable grid system, production capacity across all key segments of the supply chain, from polysilicon down to solar panels, is currently more than double global solar demand, the consultancy said.
Over half of the additions to renewable capacity this year will come from China, Rystad Energy said. By the end of July, China had installed 1,206 gigawatts of wind and solar power capacity, exceeding the 1,200 GW national target set for 2030, meaning it has accomplished the target six years ahead of schedule.
On the other hand, solar wafers and polysilicon made in China have seen record-low prices this quarter, it added.
Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, said that intense competition among leading photovoltaic companies for market share has, to some extent, undermined efforts to promote the industry's healthy development.
Despite calls for greater industry self-discipline and sustainability, the effectiveness of these initiatives has been limited. The competition-driven focus on expanding market share has made it challenging for the industry to stabilize prices and phase out inefficient capacity, which could hinder the sector's long-term growth, he said.
#36
Energy transitions are unfolding everywhere but the stakes for Indonesia's shift are particularly important as it is the world's fourth-most populous country, sixth-biggest emitter of CO2 and top exporter of coal.
Coal accounts for more than 62 percent of Indonesia's power generation, while renewable energy makes up 14 percent. Wind and solar power comprise around 0.2 percent of that mix, far from the global average of 10 percent. The rest of Indonesia's renewable energy comes from hydropower, biofuels and waste-to-energy.
The Indonesian government has reiterated that it will pursue the energy transition at its own pace and in ways that match the country's economic goals and fiscal ability, stressing that the strategies of developed economies will not work for developing countries.
Indonesia's Coordinating Minister for Maritime and Investment Affairs Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan said that the economies of developing countries must still grow, while they pursued emissions reduction.
"We need to avoid being dogmatic about one technology in carbon emissions reduction," Luhut said during the Indonesia International Sustainability Forum, or IISF, in Jakarta in September.
Luhut said that Indonesia would involve the development of the green economy as part of its push toward energy transition.
He cited cooperation with Singapore in developing a solar panel manufacturing industry in exchange for exporting low-emission electricity to the city-state.
Singapore has approved the import of 3.4 gigawatts of electricity from Indonesia.
Luhut also boasted of the country's push into electric vehicle manufacturing and EV adoption among Indonesians.
Moreover, he is eyeing boosting the country's biofuel production, particularly from existing sources of crude palm oil and later exploring the use of seaweed, which it has in abundance.
The Indonesian Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry's new renewable energy and energy conservation director-general, Eniya Listiani Dewi, said that Indonesia would require $55 billion in investment to push its energy transition for the next five years. She said that next year the country would already need its first $14 billion.
She added that establishing a stable grid to effectively manage large shares of intermittent renewable energy sources like solar and wind power remained one of the major challenges to the energy transition in the country.
Indonesian President Joko Widodo said during his remarks on Sept 5 that Indonesia had over 3,600 GW of renewable energy potential and 3.3 million hectares of mangroves that could absorb up to 12 times the amount of carbon dioxide absorbed by tropical rainforests.
He said none of this would yield much if developed countries "don't have the courage to make investments, share their technology and provide affordable financing for developing countries".
Putra Adhiguna, managing director at the Energy Shift Institute, said that the government should focus on expanding renewable energy capacity and improving inter-island interconnections because electricity demand in Indonesia will continue to increase.
During the IISF, Indonesian state-owned electricity group Perusahaan Listrik Negara through two of its subsidiaries and Saudi utility developer ACWA Power signed a hydrogen purchase agreement with state-owned fertilizer company Pupuk Indonesia.
Last year, the companies signed an agreement to develop the largest green hydrogen facility of its kind, powered by 600 megawatts of solar and wind power, which is expected to start commercial operations in 2026. The project will enable 150,000 metric tons of green ammonia production annually.
Institute for Essential Services Reform Executive Director Fabby Tumiwa, however, cautioned that despite the many hydrogen developments in Indonesia, the government is planning for most of it to be exported.
He said that the country has yet to see an upward trend of hydrogen use domestically.
State-owned oil and gas company Pertamina also signed an agreement to jointly study the potential development of carbon capture and storage with partners, including Pupuk Indonesia and South Korean steel giant POSCO, at the IISF in September.
Rachmat Kaimuddin, undersecretary for transportation and infrastructure at the Office of the Coordinating Ministry for Maritime and Investment Affairs, reiterated during the IISF the country's commitment to fighting pollution in its cities, especially Jakarta.
Rachmat said the government hoped it could soon introduce "much cleaner" gasoline in the first quarter next year and biodiesel before the end of this year.
He acknowledged that Indonesia had been lagging behind on determining emissions standards for its coal plants but he gave an assurance that the government was working to improve its capability in this area.
#37
The Middle East has emerged as a key destination for China's new energy companies that are expanding overseas, providing vast development opportunities despite increased global trade challenges, said industry experts and company executives.
The Middle East offers significant advantages due to its abundant wind and solar resources, while wealthy consumers and large enterprises in the region also have strong purchasing power, ensuring stable revenues for Chinese firms seeking expansion abroad, said Li Jing, Partner of Deal Strategy and Mergers & Acquisitions at KPMG in China.
Compared to long-term, capital-intensive infrastructure projects, renewable energy generation projects have shorter cycles and clearer profit models. Chinese companies expanding overseas can leverage their technological advantages and commercial experience to quickly seize related market opportunities, Li said.
According to a report released recently by KPMG China on the international expansion of new energy companies, the Middle East region receives 22-26 percent of the total solar energy on Earth, with solar potential equivalent to the energy produced by 1 to 2 million barrels of oil annually per square kilometer, which is capable of satisfying at least 50 percent of global power demand.
Additionally, about three-quarters of the region's area has wind speeds exceeding the minimum threshold for utility-scale wind farms, with Morocco, Egypt, and Tunisia ranking among the top countries globally in wind energy potential, it said.
On a macro level, China and Arab states have been actively promoting bilateral investment cooperation in recent years. China has signed agreements with 22 Arab countries and the Arab League as part of the Belt and Road Initiative, establishing a comprehensive cooperation mechanism, according to the report.
Chinese Premier Li Qiang recently visited Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, with a delegation including executives of China's top renewable energy companies, such as Chinese wind turbine manufacturer Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co Ltd, solar product manufacturer Trina Solar and solar power firm GCL Group.
Facing rising tariffs from the United States and the European Union aimed at curbing Chinese dominance in the global solar supply chain, Chinese manufacturers have had to rethink their overseas strategies, said Cai Zhongquan, managing partner of energy and natural resources for China and Asia-Pacific at KPMG.
The overseas market is becoming a critical part of the strategic layout for Chinese new energy companies, especially in solar, wind, storage, and hydrogen energy. The Middle East, seen as a potential safe haven, has become an attractive market for expansion, said Cai.
According to KPMG, China is increasingly focused on external cooperation in the renewable energy sector, with exports of electric vehicles, lithium-ion batteries, and solar cells up nearly 30 percent year-on-year last year.
Jinko Solar and TCL Zhonghuan, two of the world's largest producers of solar modules and silicon wafers, announced joint ventures with Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund in July, with investments exceeding $3 billion. GCL Technology and Trina Solar have also revealed plans for Middle East projects.
Qian Jing, vice-president of Jinko Solar, the world's largest solar panel producer by shipments, said the Middle East, which enjoys adequate credit, sufficient financing resources, stable conditions, policy support and an ambitious market, is likely to see the company's fourth overseas plant after those in Malaysia, Vietnam and the US.
With an investment of around $1 billion, the facility will be Jinko Solar's most significant overseas investment to date and is expected to have an annual production capacity of 10 gigawatts for high-efficiency solar cells and modules once operational, the company said. It will also be the largest manufacturing base for Chinese photovoltaic products abroad, it added.
Longi has been involved in several landmark projects in the Middle East while the company is also considering further investments in the region, as the Gulf area is becoming a global hot spot for renewable energy, according to a report by the company in August.
The Middle East's abundant natural resources, stable market, and strategic location present vast potential not only for photovoltaic power, but also for hydrogen, said James Jin, president of Longi Middle East, Africa and Central Asia.
"The clean energy demands of the Middle East, coupled with China's products and technologies, create a mutually beneficial opportunity and a win-win for both regions," he said.
"As more large-scale projects are realized, we will remain dedicated to deepening our collaboration with local partners, offering tailored solutions, and overcoming challenges to contribute to the achievement of net-zero emission goals across the region."
Nicholas Lua, an analyst at global consultancy Rystad Energy, said solar power manufacturing in Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries could further expand Chinese solar companies' presence on the global stage.
According to Rystad Energy, the Middle East is undergoing an energy transition, shifting from its traditional dependence on oil and gas, which currently supplies over 90 percent of its energy needs.
As solar power in the Middle East accounted for just 2 percent of the region's energy mix in 2023 and is projected to make up more than half by mid-century, Chinese solar manufacturers - which take up over 80 percent of the global supply chain and which are currently under the weight of global trade barriers and shrinking profit margins at home - have massive potential in the region, it said.
"The Middle East offers an alternative market where trade barriers and tariffs are not as prevalent," said Nishant Kumar, an analyst at Rystad Energy.
As a central hub between Europe, Asia and Africa, the Middle East positions itself as a potential energy export center. Kumar believes its growing demand and less crowded market allow Chinese companies to secure more opportunities and diversify their market risks.
"The Middle East offers ample growth opportunities and allows Chinese companies to maintain their global competitiveness amid rising challenges in other regions," he said.
However, Cai also warned of the complexities in overseas markets, saying that the market environment abroad remains intricate, with challenges such as information opacity and significant differences in market demand. This makes swift and accurate decision-making difficult.
Chinese new energy companies will still face risks related to fluctuating raw material prices, equipment transport issues, varying technical standards, and supply chain disruptions during their international expansion, he added.
According to the report by KPMG, while countries in the Middle East and North Africa are accelerating their energy transition strategies with local installed energy capacity witnessing significant growth, the overall energy structure has not undergone a fundamental shift.
This is due to several uncertainties, including the region's volatile geopolitical landscape, long-standing economic dependence on traditional energy sources, the reliance of new energy technologies on European and American standards, and the limited diversity in renewable energy project development models, it said.
On the other hand, Chinese companies participating in new energy projects in the Middle East may also face challenges in improving economic returns, as they are currently mostly involved in large-scale Independent Power Producer projects, mainly serving as equipment suppliers and contractors, which expose them to significant profitability pressure, it said.
In the long run, as more countries and enterprises enter the Middle East and North Africa renewable energy markets, competition is expected to intensify, potentially further eroding the project profitability of Chinese companies, it said.
#38
An African expert on renewable energy has called for developing countries to gain more accessible renewable energy technology through global North-South and South-South collaboration.
China Daily moderated a panel discussion on "Renewable Energy - Powering a Safer Future" on Wednesday at the SDG Media Zone on the sidelines of the 79th session of the UN General Assembly in New York.
The SDG Media Zone, organized by the UN Department of Global Communications, is a media program that aims to accelerate action on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
The discussion occurred a day after the Global Renewables Summit on the sidelines of the General Assembly. The summit emphasized the goal of the UAE Consensus: to triple global renewable energy capacity by 2030 and to keep the 1.5 C target within reach.
"When I speak from an African perspective, it's not just about tripling - it's about multiplying renewables fivefold. If we're aiming for five times the renewable energy capacity, we don't have time for disagreements on policy or comparing approaches," Wangari Muchiri, Africa director at the Global Renewables Alliance, said at the panel discussion. She also represents the Global Wind Energy Council, whose membership includes the top five original equipment manufacturers from China and the West.
"Coming from a developing country myself, when I try to import a solar panel into Kenya, I have to pay 30 percent more in capital costs, then I have to pay all the import duties, and finally, wait for the solar panel to arrive so I can deploy it in a solar farm," she said, adding that the process needed to be faster and ensure easier access.
"That means diversifying our supply chains, working through global North-South and South-South collaboration to transfer technology," she said.
Risks to supply chain
The concern about diversifying clean-energy supply chains stems from the concentration of critical mineral production - such as cobalt, lithium, and rare earth elements, or REEs - in a few regions, posing risks to supply chain stability.
For instance, the Democratic Republic of the Congo supplies 70 percent of the world's cobalt, and China provides 60 percent of REEs. Australia and Chile dominate lithium mining.
"Now, to reach the target of a tripling of new renewable energy by 2030, we are going to need a significantly larger amount of critical minerals. We need to create the opportunities for these resource-rich developing countries to really draw the benefit through value addition and industrial development, and investments," said Ditte Juul Jorgensen, co-chair of the UN Secretary-General's Panel on Critical Energy Transition Minerals.
Jorgensen, who is also the director-general for energy at the European Commission, called for diversifying the supply chain.
Muchiri called for changes in intellectual property laws to facilitate the sharing of technology.
"We need some movement around IP laws to figure out how we can share," she said.
Francesco La Camera, director-general of the International Renewable Energy Agency, said at the panel that time is the most crucial factor in fighting climate change, as "the physics of climate doesn't allow us to delay. If we don't act now, we'll pay for the damage later."
#39
Over the past three months, Anhui Huasun Energy Co Ltd has been racing against time to make solar modules for a gigantic photovoltaic project in China's Xinjiang.
These 1.8-gigawatt modules using advanced heterojunction technology will be installed at a 4-gigawatt solar power plant, which is located on the edge of China's largest desert, the Taklimakan.
"For Chinese companies in the photovoltaic industry more than 20 years ago, raw materials, technologies and markets relied heavily on foreign countries and regions. But now, the tide has totally turned," Huasun's chairman Xu Xiaohua said.
In East China's Anhui province, where Xu's company is based, the photovoltaic industry has snowballed in the past five years. The number of companies in the business with an annual revenue exceeding 10 billion yuan ($1.43 billion) rose to 11 in 2023.
The boom, which is also recorded beyond Anhui, is underpinned by China's vigorous efforts to expedite a comprehensive transition to green growth as tasks remain daunting.
China aims to raise the proportion of non-fossil energy consumption to around 25 percent of total energy consumption by 2030, which means the country must make every effort to increase the ratio by one percentage point annually in the next few years.
"The proportion of coal consumption in China's total energy consumption stood at 55.3 percent in 2023, and thus the potential for green and low-carbon energy transition is great," said Li Zheng, director of the Institute of Climate Change and Sustainable Development at Tsinghua University.
China is already revving up the transition to green energy. Official data released this week showed that the installed capacity of solar power came in at approximately 750 million kilowatts in the first eight months of 2024, rocketing 48.8 percent year-on-year, and the installed capacity of wind power grew 19.9 percent to some 470 million kilowatts.
Pan Huimin, deputy head of the National Energy Administration's new and renewable energy department, said the rapid development of the new energy sector in recent years resulted from full market competition, a sound business environment, constant tech innovation and a complete industrial chain.
To meet the requirement of exports and foster green industrial and supply chains, Chinese enterprises' demand for clean electricity is experiencing "explosive growth," Pan said in the latest episode of the China Economic Roundtable, an all-media talk platform hosted by Xinhua. The new episode was broadcast Friday.
A key challenge is fully harnessing unstable wind and sunlight and transmitting power to users, often hundreds or thousands of kilometers away.
Last month, users in Beijing started receiving solar and wind power generated in the northwestern province of Gansu after the energy was delivered via extra-high-voltage transmission lines, benefiting Gansu companies in the business and meeting the Chinese capital's demand for green energy.
China unveiled an action plan last month to speed up building a "new electricity system." According to the document, Chinese authorities will use advanced power generation, regulation and control technologies to increase the transmission of clean electricity through the grid.
Local governments and enterprises should seize opportunities and vigorously exploit wind and solar power in line with local resources and with the capabilities of the grid to absorb the generated electricity, Pan said.
#40
China's increasingly close relationship with Brazil could prove key to generating more renewable energy in both countries and, in time, address the global climate crisis, experts said.
"Exchange of knowledge and technologies between China and Brazil can be mutually beneficial, with Brazil contributing its expertise in biomass and hydropower, while China brings innovations in solar panels, batteries and smart grid infrastructure," said Evandro Menezes de Carvalho, a senior fellow at Peking University's Institute for Global Cooperation and Understanding and a coordinator of the Brazil-China Research Group at Brazilian think tank Getulio Vargas Foundation School of Law.
Brazil has emerged as a top destination for Chinese foreign direct investment, particularly in sectors that can help the country diversify and secure its clean energy supply chains.
Between 2007 and 2023, Brazil was the fourth-largest investment destination for China after the United States, Australia and the United Kingdom, according to the Brazil-China Business Council. In 2023, China's investments in Brazil reached $1.73 billion, a 33 percent jump from 2022.
Almost three-quarters of those investments were focused on projects related to renewable energy, sustainability and decarbonization. These investments can help multiple goals, de Carvalho noted. On the one hand, they can support Brazil's growth and economic diversification. On the other, they can help diversify China's renewable energy supply chains, he said.
China is a leader in the green economy transition, while Brazil has historically had a role as a guardian of global natural resources, given its vast Amazon rainforest, de Carvalho said.
"This creates an opportunity for cooperation, as both countries share the need to reconcile economic growth with environmental preservation," he said.
Important location
Brazil is an important location for green projects because it has one of the cleanest energy matrices among the G20 nations. Almost half of Brazil's energy supply and 80 percent of its electricity is sourced from renewables, according to the World Bank.
"Sino-Brazilian cooperation in clean technologies allows Chinese companies to expand their business and technology in Brazil while helping the country increase its production of sustainable energy," said de Carvalho.
As it pushes a new plan for industrialization, Brazil is also moving ahead with significant energy transition. China's role in this process can be significant, said Javier Vadell, an international relations professor at Brazil's Pontifical Catholic University of Minas Gerais.
Last month, Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva launched the National Energy Transition Policy that aims to secure more than $364 billion in investments in green economy over the next decade.
It is not just green energy projects that drive the relationship between Brazil and China, which are both part of the BRICS grouping. Vadell said the bilateral trade relationship is also poised to continue growing on other fronts. Brazil is a major seller of agricultural products, minerals and meat products.
Brazil's relationship with China has always been good, Vadell noted. It was the first country in Latin America to sign a strategic partnership agreement with China.
Both countries have signed up to the Paris Agreement and vowed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
China has committed to reaching peak emissions before 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality before 2060. Investing in Brazil's renewable energy projects can help Beijing meet those goals, said de Carvalho.
#41
The United States' latest move to raise tariffs on upstream polysilicon and wafers from China is expected to have only a limited impact on China's solar power sector, said analysts and companies.
Chinese firms have been diversifying their supply chains across the globe, allowing them to mitigate the effects of such trade barriers, they say.
The Office of the US Trade Representative announced earlier that it has finalized tariff hikes on selected Chinese products following a four-year review aimed at "strengthening protections for strategic industries", despite opposition from multiple domestic sectors.
Further control over tariffs on photovoltaic imports could increase the cost of solar projects in the US, potentially affecting its solar energy expansion efforts, yet with only a limited impact on China's solar sector, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
The tariffs will create challenges but are unlikely to result in any significant structural change in China's photovoltaic dominance, as Chinese solar companies are capable of navigating this latest challenge with minimal disruptions to their global operations, Lin said.
"US reliance on imported solar products from Southeast Asia, where many Chinese firms have production facilities, means that the US solar market will still indirectly depend on Chinese upstream production, making the tariffs less effective in curbing China's role in the global solar supply chain. On the other hand, while US tariffs might increase production costs for some Chinese exporters, the growing internal and international demand will help stabilize revenues," Lin said.
Li Xiande, chairman of JinkoSolar, said Chinese solar companies have been competitive in research and development, especially in upstream manufacturing and grid infrastructure, as well as commercialization and scaling up.
In response to global challenges in recent years such as trade barriers and protectionism, JinkoSolar has made strategic moves including diversifying markets, customizing production and exporting technology and expertise to ensure its global leading position, he said.
For example, the company has been increasing its local presence by establishing subsidiaries across key markets such as Egypt, Kenya, Namibia, Morocco, Nigeria and South Africa, all of which the company - the world's largest solar panel producer by shipments - believes "has ambitious and decisive energy transition goals and relatively stable political and financial environments, making them prime targets for growth".
It has also been stepping up efforts to increase partnerships with influential local customers, stakeholders, local trade associations and government lobbyists, said Li.
Due to various trade policies, direct exports of Chinese PV products to the US are almost zero. Tariffs on exports from Southeast Asia to the US are expected to increase, and the final tariffs will be revealed in September or October, he said.
Despite the current trade barriers, Li said he still believes accelerated mass adoption and strong demand from diversified markets represent great opportunities for JinkoSolar.
Solar wafers and polysilicon made in China have seen record-low prices this quarter, according to Rystad Data. The proposed 50 percent tariff would raise prices, but not significantly, given the current low price levels, it said.
"The 50 percent tariff on solar cells from China reads like a symbolic measure," said Nicholas Lua, a solar supply chain analyst at global consultancy Rystad Energy.
In 2023, the value of US solar cell imports from China averaged $1.75 million per quarter. That's sixty times less than the value of US solar cell imports from Southeast Asia for the same year, which averaged $116 million per quarter last year. The cell tariff will not substantially impact trade flows between both countries, he said.
The China Photovoltaic Industry Association said the US has not ranked among the top 10 export markets for Chinese PV products in recent years.
Due to the lack of a complete PV supply chain and sufficient production capacity in the US, the country relies heavily on imports for its solar products. Currently, most solar products in the US are imported from Southeast Asia, with about 80 percent of the country's total PV module imports coming from the region, it said.
#42
China is playing an increasingly important role in promoting the world's green, high-tech, and sustainable development, as the global economy grapples with mounting challenges including climate change and geopolitical tensions, according to experts participating in the 12th Beijing Humboldt Forum.
They said countries should work together to strengthen cooperation and multilateralism to deal with challenges and uncertainties jointly, in a bid to foster a more balanced and sustainable growth for the world's future.
Nobel Prize-winning economist Michael Spence highlighted that the global economy is facing unprecedented challenges from climate change, rising geopolitical tensions as well as headwinds from declining productivity growth and aging issues.
"China has made enormous progress in electric vehicles, solar battery technology and so on," Spence said during the meeting on Saturday via a video link. "These need to spread around the world and be made available everywhere... So if we use these tools wisely, we have a reasonable chance of not only overcoming the current headwinds to growth and development in many parts of the world but also putting the global economy on a different trajectory."
Citing a recent report by Beijing-based University of International Business and Economics, the university's President Zhao Zhongxiu called on Global South countries to participate in the global value chain and promote green and low-carbon development, adding that China's experiences are helpful for those countries in dealing with the challenges ahead.
"China has been a member of the World Trade Organization for over 20 years, which offers valuable insights, particularly in cooperation with Global South countries," Zhao said. "From China's perspective, the key takeaway is to leverage multilateral and bilateral trade agreements to promote economic development."
When it comes to green and low-carbon development, he said that presents an opportunity for Global South countries to catch up, particularly in the area of energy transition.
"The key is strengthening policy coordination and multilateral cooperation," Zhao said. "It is essential to encourage green technological innovation and application, as well as to advance technology transfer and cooperation, rather than imposing technological blockades."
Jin Xu, chairman of the China Association of International Trade, noted that the current global political and economic landscape faces many uncertainties, saying a decoupling of Western countries and China would lead to significant losses for both sides and erode global confidence in future economic development.
Highlighting China's notable growth in the new three sectors of electrical vehicles, lithium batteries and solar cells, he called on countries to jointly strengthen cooperation and multilateralism to foster a green and sustainable future.
#43
At a recently concluded forum on low-carbon development in North China's Shanxi province, many foreign companies have expressed optimism about China's green energy transition, noting that they are actively seeking collaborative opportunities with the country.
The 2024 Taiyuan Energy Low Carbon Development Forum was held from Tuesday to Wednesday in the provincial capital of Taiyuan, with the China (Taiyuan) International Energy Industry Expo, a key component of the event, extending its run until Thursday.
The expo's dedicated area for international enterprises has become a highlight, drawing prominent exhibitors such as Air Products, BETEK, a leading manufacturer of tungsten carbide tools, and Sino Gas & Energy, known for its expertise in tight gas and coalbed methane exploration and development.
Air Products, an industrial gas, related equipment and application provider, entered the Chinese market in 1987.
The company has made significant investments in advanced production facilities in multiple cities across Shanxi, such as Changzhi, Linfen and Jincheng since 2013, contributing to sustainable and innovative development, according to Feng Yan, vice-president of Air Products China.
"We are very optimistic about the Chinese market, particularly in the context of energy transition," Feng said. "Hydrogen is a pivotal element for a green and low-carbon transition, and we are eager to expand our operations in China, leveraging our technology and expertise."
During the China-Europe workshop on clean energy transition held at the forum, attendees engaged in profound exchanges and lively discussions on energy transition collaboration.
In his keynote speech, Joseph Mansour, head of the International Energy Unit at the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero of the United Kingdom (UK) government, emphasized the longstanding history of energy cooperation between Britain and China, covering academic, policy, industrial and commercial partnerships.
"The UK looks forward to continuing collaboration with China in areas such as power market reform, offshore wind as well as carbon capture, utilization and storage, while also advancing cooperation in emerging fields like battery technology and hydrogen," Mansour said.
Xu Zhonghua, vice-president for TotalEnergies R&D for Asia, said that this year marks the company's 100th anniversary. As a global integrated energy company, TotalEnergies is undergoing a transformation, with over 50 percent of its research and development (R&D) budget dedicated to the development of low-carbon and clean technologies.
"TotalEnergies has been in the Chinese market for over 40 years, and our future investments in China will focus on low-carbon and new energy sectors," said Xu, adding that the company is actively investing in solar energy, wind power, energy storage and green aviation fuels, aiming to use its traditional energy expertise to drive innovation.
In recent years, China has achieved significant progress in energy transition. According to a white paper titled "China's Energy Transition," the proportion of clean energy consumption reached 26.4 percent of China's total energy use in 2023, up 10.9 percentage points from a decade ago. Over the same period, the share of coal consumption decreased by 12.1 percentage points.
Over the past decade, clean energy has contributed to more than half of the total increase in electricity consumption, reflecting a growing presence of green energy in China's energy mix.
China has vowed to tackle climate change and follow a steadfast path of green, low-carbon development. It has pledged to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.
#44
China's efforts to bolster energy security took a significant leap forward as its two largest oilfields achieved historic production milestones, underscoring the nation's commitment to enhancing domestic energy supplies amid global uncertainties.
China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) said last Tuesday that Bohai oilfield, the largest offshore oilfield in China, has surpassed daily crude oil production of 100,000 metric tons for the first time since its establishment in 1965 - a cornerstone of China's offshore oil industry.
On the same day, China National Petroleum Corp (CNPC) reported that its Changqing oilfield, China's largest onshore oil and gas field, reached a cumulative output of 1 billion tons of oil and gas equivalent, solidifying its status as the country's most productive onshore oil and gas resource.
Last year, Changqing became the first Chinese oilfield to exceed 60 million tons in annual oil and gas output.
These achievements further enhance the country's energy supply capacity, and are a testament to China's increasing efforts to secure its energy independence in the face of rising geopolitical tensions and fluctuating global oil markets, analysts said.
The milestones achieved by Bohai and Changqing reflect the broader national agenda to enhance self-reliance in energy production and reduce dependency on foreign imports, said Wang Lining, director of the oil market research department of the CNPC Economics and Technology Research Institute in Beijing.
The significant increase in oil and gas production is due to the accelerated investment in domestic exploration, driven by rising energy prices in recent years, Wang said.
China's seven-year action plan for increasing reserves and production of oil and gas has yielded major results in recent years, with the nation's three major oil companies making notable progress through increasing investments, particularly in deep-water, deep-layer and unconventional oil and gas fields.
"China's focus on both onshore and offshore fields further secures energy supply chains and mitigates the risks posed by external factors," he said.
Energy supply in China remained ample and stable throughout last year, with crude oil production remaining steadfast at 200 million tons, marking a sixth consecutive year of growth.
The implementation of economic stimulus policies and the rapid market recovery last year have driven consumption demand for energy such as petroleum and natural gas, said Wu Mouyuan, vice-president of the institute.
According to the institute, oil demand in China is expected to continue rising this year amid economic recovery, while natural gas has been emerging as a pivotal energy source to support domestic energy transition.
Energy self-sufficiency in China continued to rise last year, increasing to 85.6 percent, up 7.2 percentage points compared to the rate in 2016. The robust support of energy supply additions has contributed significantly to economic recovery, it said.
The Bohai Oilfield, with over 50 operational oil and gas fields and more than 200 production facilities, has cumulatively produced more than 500 million tons of oil and gas equivalents. The field is located in the resource-rich but geologically complex Bohai Bay Basin, where ongoing investments are expected to push production to 40 million tons of oil and gas annually by 2025, said Zhang Chunsheng, deputy general manager of CNOOC's Tianjin branch.
The investment will further strengthen offshore oil and gas production's critical role in securing a stable supply of oil and gas resources for China, while reducing reliance on foreign sources, he said.
Changqing oilfield, which began natural gas production in 1997, has been instrumental in supplying over 650 billion cubic meters of natural gas to key regions, including Beijing and its surrounding areas. This volume of natural gas has replaced an estimated 790 million tons of standard coal, contributing significantly to China's carbon reduction efforts.
#45
As Africa looks to solar power to drive its renewable energy development, cooperation with China and drawing on its expertise is playing an increasingly vital role, industry experts said.
Chinese companies in the photovoltaic energy sector have rich experience and advanced technologies, which have helped deepen cooperation between China and Africa, said Nivedh Das Thaikoottathil, senior analyst in the renewables and power department of global consultancy Rystad Energy.
Expanding electricity access is crucial for boosting economic opportunities and people's quality of life in Africa. China is not only the global leader in installed capacity and power generation, but is also the world's largest producer and supplier of solar cells and modules, which aligns perfectly with the continent's needs, she said.
In the past, China's energy investments in Africa have primarily focused on large hydropower and coal-fired power projects. However, in recent years there has been a shift toward solar power projects, she added.
Chinese investments in Africa's renewable energy sector grew at an average annual rate of 26 percent from 2010 to 2020, with solar, hydropower, and wind the leading technologies, according to Rystad Energy.
China's prowess in solar aids Africa's green transition
Rich experience, new technologies provide continent with clean energy
Kenya pioneers efforts
The Chinese-constructed 50-megawatt Garissa solar power station in northeastern Kenya is the largest PV power project in East Africa. Since it began operations in 2019, the solar power plant has generated over 76 million kilowatt-hours annually, meeting the electricity needs of 70,000 households and more than 380,000 people.
Built by the China Jiangxi Corporation for International Economic and Technical Cooperation in conjunction with Kenya's Rural Energy Authority, the project has not only freed local residents from frequent power outages but also promoted local industrial and commercial development, creating numerous job opportunities, said the company.
It has also made Kenya one of the biggest investors in renewable and clean energy as it is home to the largest grid-connected solar power plant in East and Central Africa.
As it strives for renewable energy development, the station has helped Kenya save about 24,470 metric tons of standard coal and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 64,000 tons annually.
Chinese photovoltaic companies can provide high-quality and competitively priced PV products in Africa, said Wang Jifeng, deputy general manager of JinkoSolar in the Middle East and Africa. They have advantages through excellent technology and product strength and are also a leading global presence, Wang said.
Chinese solar companies, in addition, have established comprehensive marketing systems, excellent local teams, and efficient after-sales services over the years. These efforts have enabled them to meet the growing energy demands and diverse application scenarios in the African market, he said.
Since 2021, Longi Green Energy Technology, for example, has directly supplied over 1 gigawatt of PV modules to more than 30 African countries. These modules are used across various sectors including national power grids, industry, commerce, agriculture, hospitals, schools, and public utilities.
In addition to exporting PV modules, Longi has also been stepping up collaboration with educational institutions to provide training in new energy.
The International Energy Agency forecasts that solar photovoltaic energy will comprise 47 percent of the technology's mix for mini-grids and off-the-grid systems power generation in sub-Saharan Africa by 2040, an indication that Kenya is on the right track.
Projects spread
The Garissa solar power station is not the only project of its type being built through cooperation with Chinese companies. Many similar China-Africa cooperation PV projects are located across the African continent, a region that is endowed with large solar resources.
China Electric Power Equipment and Technology recently signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to develop a 10-GW solar energy project in Egypt, which aims to boost renewable energy capacity and reduce reliance on fossil fuels in the country.
The completed project will be able to generate nearly 30 terawatt hours of electricity per year. The project, which is part of Egypt's Green Corridor initiative dedicated to renewable energy development, will also save $1 billion in annual costs of natural gas.
In recent years, a growing number of Chinese companies have come up with high-quality and affordable PV products in African countries, industry experts said. Investing in and constructing PV power plants in multiple African countries has also boosted local economies and provided reliable and low-cost electricity.
China-Africa cooperation in solar energy development and utilization has continuously made new progress, said Mao Xiaojing, director of the institute for West-Asian and African studies under the Beijing-based Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation.
Energy shortages are a common issue faced by many African countries. By 2030, 660 million people worldwide will be without electricity, most of whom live in the sub-Saharan region, according to an International Energy Agency report.
Africa possesses abundant renewable energy resources, with solar, wind, and hydropower reserves accounting for 40 percent, 32 percent and 12 percent of global reserves respectively, and offering enormous potential for renewable energy development.
Data released by the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) showed that between 2011 and 2020, Africa's solar installed capacity achieved an annual growth rate of 54 percent, which is two and a half times that of wind energy, nearly four times that of geothermal, and almost 17 times that of hydropower.
"Currently, solar energy is the fastest-growing renewable energy in Africa and has become a key area of China-Africa clean energy cooperation," said Mao.
China and African countries are continuously innovating cooperation models in the field of solar and other clean energy to better adapt to the current economic and social development of Africa, Mao added.
Complementary resources
China's advantages in the renewable energy industry chain complement Africa's natural environmental endowments, Mao said, adding this opens up vast room for China-Africa cooperation in solar energy development and utilization.
In recent years, China's PV industry has developed rapidly and formed the world's most complete PV industry chain with multiple advantages in technology, cost, and scale. China is also the global leader in equipment manufacturing and engineering services related to PV applications, including energy storage and power transmission and distribution.
Africa's advantages stem from regions possessing abundant sunshine, giving it some of the richest solar energy resources globally, she said.
Many African countries regard the development of solar and other clean energies as crucial for addressing power shortages and promoting energy transition.
According to Kenya's Vision 2030, the country aims to achieve 100 percent clean energy power generation by 2030. South Africa has proposed increasing the proportion of clean energy, such as solar power, in its energy mix from the current 7 percent to 40 percent by 2030. The construction of clean energy projects in Ethiopia, Uganda, and other countries is also progressing steadily.
China-Africa clean energy cooperation has effectively improved the power supply shortage situation in African countries and provided strong support for Africa's climate change response and green transition development, said Mao.
According to the IRENA's African renewable energy market report, the continent has about 7,900 GW of solar PV technical potential. As Africa's economic and social development and industrialization advance, local electricity demand will continue to grow.
Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, said the rapid economic development in Africa in recent years has also led to a practical demand for energy transition, providing momentum for the continent's development of renewable energy.
Developing solar energy in Africa can help eliminate "energy poverty", reduce greenhouse gas emissions, create green jobs, and improve the living conditions of local residents, he said.
"Africa has benefited immensely from China's growing green energy industry, especially affordable green energy products like solar panels and batteries, as Chinese renewable energy technologies are cost-effective, highly applicable, and well-suited for African conditions," he said.
"Strengthening Sino-African renewable energy cooperation not only enhances Africa's sustainable development capabilities but also helps bridge Africa's technological gaps in related fields. Through each cooperation (effort), African countries have learned advanced technologies and management experiences from China."
In the future, China can leverage its advantages in photovoltaics, batteries, and mobile payments to not only supply equipment to African countries but also become developers and operators of PV projects. This commercially oriented approach will inject more vitality into Africa's economy, he added.
According to Mao, in addition to existing forms of cooperation such as aid, trade, equipment supply, project contracting, and enterprise investment, China can explore more cooperation with African countries in solar energy development and utilization.
By strengthening technical exchanges, sharing development experiences, and increasing financing support, new spaces for cooperation can be opened up, she said.
Africa is also rich in other renewable energies like wind, geothermal, and green hydrogen, which are areas where China and African countries can conduct more pragmatic cooperation.
#46
Experts said China's efforts in promoting high-quality economic development and fostering new quality productive forces could further boost the nation's green transition.
Their comments came after the third plenary session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China which concluded in July. The plenum's resolution described high-quality development as a "primary task "in building China into a modern socialist country in all respects, and identified fostering new quality productive forces as one of the key guidelines in achieving the goal.
Some detailed measures in the resolution include further developing new energy sectors soundly and orderly; encouraging companies to apply digital, intelligent, and green technologies to transform traditional industries; and imposing tighter institutional constraints for environmental protection, among others.
Following the closing of the plenum, China has also introduced a series of policies to accelerate the green transition, including the establishment of a dual control system that now prioritizes carbon emission reductions over the previous focus on energy consumption intensity and total energy consumption.
Muyi Yang, senior electricity policy analyst for China at Ember, an energy think tank headquartered in the United Kingdom, praised this trajectory for being "sustainable".
"By focusing on high-quality development, China aims to build an economy that is not only larger but also more sophisticated, efficient, and adaptable to future challenges, including climate change. This philosophy emphasizes the need to upgrade industries, foster technological innovation, and enhance productivity while minimizing environmental impact, thereby ensuring long-term prosperity and social well-being," he said.
Belinda Schaepe, China policy analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, which is based in Helsinki, Finland, noted that China's continuous push for its new development path has already led to a boom in clean technologies.
"Clean energy was already the top driver of China's economic growth in 2023, contributing 40 percent of the GDP expansion," she said, quoting a research paper published by the center in January this year. "The heightened focus by the Chinese government on fostering new quality productive forces, including green technologies, will likely further drive production in this sector."
She said the growing volumes of affordable clean products in China could also help the global energy transition and the supply chains that need to be expanded worldwide.
"China's investment and production of green technologies were key drivers in bringing down international prices, accelerating the uptake worldwide," Schaepe said. "Chinese companies are already setting up new production facilities in other countries. They can contribute to diversifying supply chains and offering technology transfer, particularly with countries in the Global South."
Sustained focus
Meanwhile, China's sustained focus on green transformation has also driven some traditional energy-intensive industries to become cleaner, both experts pointed out.
Yang found out that both China's central and local state-owned enterprises in the electricity sector, while owning the majority of coal power assets in the country, have actively diversified into renewable energy, which significantly contributed to controlling the emissions by limiting coal consumption increase.
The steel sector saw no new permits for coal-based steel plants in the first half of 2024, signaling a shift toward cleaner production methods such as electric arc furnaces, Schaepe said.
"The record expansion of renewables capacity, coupled with saturation in the real estate sector and emission reductions from heavy industry, signals that China may already have seen a carbon emissions peak in 2023," she said.
Despite that, China's path to carbon neutrality can still be "long and winding", she admitted.
Schaepe called for ambitious, staged carbon reduction targets leading from peak to carbon neutrality, a clearer coal phase-down plan, and stronger support for grid flexibility and power market reform to integrate renewables.
Yang expressed hope that policy support for clean industries would remain on course, emphasizing the need for continued investment in research and development, creating new supply chains to deliver essential materials and components, and cultivating a new generation of skilled workers to support a decarbonized economy.
#48
China has made major technological advancements in the energy storage and electric vehicle sectors, and US companies could be at a disadvantage if US policies preclude them from cooperating strategically with Chinese companies, an expert said.
In an online discussion about cooperation between the United States and China on climate change, Joanna Lewis, director of the Science, Technology and International Affairs Program at Georgetown University, said the two countries need to expand cooperation.
The event on Tuesday was presented by the Center for American Progress.
Lewis said political and economic tensions between the US and China are high, and that "is exactly when engagement on climate change is of the utmost importance" to avoid "derailing all the progress that we've made in our engagement with China" over the last 30-plus years.
She said US engagement with China on climate change and clean energy has helped to build up China's own capacity to track and reduce its emissions, as well as its ability to promote "a low-carbon energy transition".
"And today, we see that China has leapfrogged many other countries in these areas, and our bilateral exchanges have become much more of a two-way street," Lewis said. "I also see that engagement has led to increased ambition, transparency and trust between our two countries."
She said US President Joe Biden administration's Inflation Reduction Act, which she said moved the US in the right direction of making clean energy industries more competitive globally, "may have gone too far in terms of completely excluding Chinese entities from participating in the US clean energy sector".
"I think there has to be a conversation about our respective roles in global clean energy supply chains without just letting it devolve into a global trade war that will slow the low-carbon transition globally," she said.
Lewis visited China this summer for the first time since the pandemic, meeting with Chinese officials and touring China's new clean energy manufacturing facilities. She said she witnessed how China is leading the world in some aspects of green technologies.
She said there are ways that are smart and protect national security, but also allow "us to leapfrog and take advantage of a lot of the real impressive innovation that we're seeing coming out of China", Lewis said.
She said the US should also have conversations with China on tough issues such as trade and research or it could risk derailing cooperation on climate change.
"We need to hit that head-on. I think it's silly to make engagement on basic science a political issue," Lewis said.
#49
China's green energy development has become an engine for the global energy transition, which has substantially eased global inflation pressures while addressing climate change, according to a white paper issued on Thursday.
China is responsible for over 40 percent of the annual additions to global renewable energy capacity since 2013. The newly installed capacity in China last year accounted for more than half of the world's total, according to the white paper titled "China's Energy Transition", which was issued by the State Council Information Office.
From 2014 to 2023, the share of nonfossil fuels in global energy consumption rose from 13.6 percent to 18.5 percent, with China accounting for 45.2 percent of the increase. Today, China is collaborating with more than 100 countries and regions on green energy projects, the white paper noted.
Zhang Jianhua, head of China's National Energy Administration, said during the release of the white paper in Beijing that "as a strong advocate of global energy transition, China will continue working with other members of the international community to plan energy cooperation together, address global climate change and create a clean world for all".
The International Energy Agency has recognized China as a front-runner in the global renewable energy sector and a major driving force behind the world's rapid expansion of renewable energy capacity.
Analysts said that China has been stepping up efforts to promote the reform of its energy production and consumption methods while upgrading its energy supply capacity.
"Buoyed by supportive policies, competitive advancements in the domestic supply chain and a reliable grid system, China is on track to accelerate energy transition with continuous renewable energy projects in place," said Deng Simeng, a senior analyst for renewables and power research at global consultancy Rystad Energy.
According to the consultancy, over half of the additions to renewable capacity this year will come from China. By the end of July, China had installed 1,206 gigawatts of wind and solar power capacity, exceeding the 1,200 GW national target set for 2030, meaning that China has accomplished the target six years ahead of schedule.
A report from the International Renewable Energy Agency said that global wind power projects have seen the average power generation cost per kilowatt-hour decrease more than 60 percent over the past decade, while solar power projects have seen a cost decrease of more than 80 percent. The reductions are largely attributable to China's green energy shift, the report said.
Wang Lining, director of the oil market department of the Economics and Technology Research Institute of China National Petroleum Corp, said that China's further opening-up has created new opportunities for deeper international cooperation on clean energy.
Multinationals, including General Electric, BP and Siemens, are steadily expanding their investment in China's energy sector, with many foreign projects well underway across the country, he said.
According to the white paper, China has become the world's largest investor in energy transition, with the country's investment in the transition reaching $676 billion in 2023.
Wan Jinsong, deputy head of the National Energy Administration, said that China's exports of photovoltaic and wind power products helped other countries reduce carbon dioxide emissions by about 810 million metric tons in 2023.
"The country's electricity generated from clean energy has catered to more than half of the increase in total electricity consumption over the past decade, marking a growing share of green energy in its energy mix," he said.
According to the white paper, the country's installed capacity of clean energy reached 1,700 GW last year, or 58.2 percent of the country's total installed power generation capacity. Clean energy accounted for 26.4 percent of the country's total energy use in 2023, up from 15.5 percent in 2013, while the share of coal in its energy consumption dropped 12.1 percentage points during the past decade.
Zhang, the NEA head, said the government will continuously step up efforts to deepen energy reforms by establishing and improving mechanisms for green and low-carbon development.
#50
China will continue to expand and improve the country's electric vehicle (EV) charging network in response to the booming domestic new energy vehicle (NEV) industry and public travel demands, a Chinese official said on Thursday.
"China places great importance on the construction of EV charging infrastructure, considering it a key measure to promote the green and low-carbon transition of energy and to foster high-quality development in the transportation sector," said Wan Jinsong, deputy head of China's National Energy Administration, during the release of a white paper titled "China's Energy Transition" in Beijing.
As of the end of July this year, the total number of charging facilities nationwide has reached 10.6 million units, effectively supporting the charging needs of more than 25 million NEVs. In central urban areas of major cities, the public charging service radius is now comparable to that of gas stations, he said.
"Currently, 95 percent of highway service areas are equipped with charging capabilities and China will continue to push for rapid upgrades in charging technology."
The government will continue accelerating the construction of a high-quality charging infrastructure system to support the green and low-carbon development of the transportation industry, he added.
#51
China has worked with Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) partner countries to deepen the energy transition, advance green cooperation, and achieve sustainable development, said a white paper issued on Thursday by China's State Council Information Office.
Under the BRI framework, China has devoted to open, green and clean cooperation that pursues high-standard, people-centered, and sustainable development, said the white paper titled "China's Energy Transition."
In 2021, China pledged to stop building new coal-fired power plants overseas, and focused on green and low-carbon energy projects in its energy cooperation with its partner countries, the white paper said.
The country has collaborated with over 100 countries and regions on green energy projects and launched a number of key projects and some "small yet smart" projects that effectively address the accessibility and affordability of power supply in those areas, and provided them with clean, safe and reliable energy supply solutions, it said.
The white paper cited Pakistan's Karot Hydropower Station as an example, which is a priority project for energy cooperation under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.
Built and operated by Chinese enterprises, the hydropower station boasts a total installed capacity of 720 MW and generates an annual average of 3,200 GWh of clean electricity, meeting the power demand of over 5 million people.
The country is also working on jointly building platforms for high-level energy cooperation, including the Belt and Road Energy Partnership, with its member countries reaching 33, according to the white paper.
Focusing on energy security, energy transition, energy access, and sustainable energy development, China has contributed its solutions to the reform of global energy governance, it added.
#52
China has reduced CO2 emission by 3 billion tons over the past decade in an effort to promote green consumption, a white paper said Thursday.
China's energy savings in the recent ten years have been equivalent to about 1.4 billion tons of standard coal as its industrial restructuring and upgrading and carbon reduction technologies have greatly raised energy efficiency, according to the white paper titled "China's Energy Transition" issued by the State Council Information Office.
Controlling both the volume and intensity of energy use has become a crucial institutional measure of the country, the document said.
China has stepped up efforts to improve energy conservation and efficiency in key sectors from industrial production to construction and transportation.
Over the past decade, the energy consumption per unit of added value of industrial enterprises with an annual revenue of 20 million yuan ($2.81 million) and above has dropped by more than 36 percent. Comprehensive energy consumption per unit of product in the steel, electrolytic aluminum, cement and glass has lowered by more than 9 percent on average.
In 2023, the total output value of the energy conservation service industry exceeded 500 billion yuan, doubling that of 2013.
As China is in the middle of the world's largest urbanization process, it has implemented higher energy-efficiency standards for new buildings and is steadily advancing the energy-saving retrofit of existing buildings.
By the end of 2023, the floorage of energy-efficient buildings had surpassed 32.68 billion square meters, accounting for more than 64 percent of the total urban buildings, up nearly 30 percentage points from 2013. Buildings with ultra-low or near-zero energy consumption had surpassed 43.7 million square meters.
By the end of 2023, China had over 20.4 million new energy vehicles, and almost 8.6 million charging facilities and over 450 hydrogen fueling stations nationwide.
The comprehensive energy consumption per unit load for railway transport in 2023 dropped by about 19 percent compared with 2013.
The country has also actively fostered green models of energy consumption, with efforts to encourage the consumption of renewable energy, advance the electrification and low-carbon transition of final energy consumption, and adopt green and low-carbon ways of life.
Both the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games and the Hangzhou Asian Games in 2023 utilized 100-percent green electricity, said the white paper.
#53
China has made historic breakthroughs in green and low-carbon energy development over the past decade amid its quest for a sustainable future, according to a white paper issued Thursday.
As China continuously pushed reform of its energy production and consumption methods and upgraded its energy supply capacity, its clean energy development has been put on a fast track, according to the white paper titled "China's Energy Transition."
Clean energy accounted for 26.4 percent of the country's total energy use in 2023, up from 15.5 percent in 2013, while the share of coal in its energy consumption dropped by 12.1 percentage points during the past decade, according to the white paper.
The country's electricity generated from clean energy has accounted for more than half of the increase in total electricity consumption over the past decade, marking a growing share of green energy in its energy mix.
In 2023, electricity generated from clean energy accounted for 39.7 percent of the country's total power generation, up by around 15 percentage points from 2013.
The country's installed capacity of clean energy reached 1,700 gigawatts last year, or 58.2 percent of the country's total installed power generation capacity, according to the white paper.
The white paper also noted that as China tried to synergize energy transition with environmental protection, its energy consumption per unit of GDP fell evidently, down by more than 26 percent from 2013 to 2023.
#54
China's rapid economic growth in recent years has fostered an open and diverse environment with massive business opportunities for multinational corporations, amid further opening-up and industrial reform, a top company executive said.
"Over the past few years, the Chinese market has undergone rapid growth and transformation, and its commitment to further open up its market, advance innovations, and shift toward high-quality development has fostered world-leading industries while creating opportunities for foreign businesses like Rio Tinto," said Alf Barrios, chief commercial officer of Rio Tinto, the world's largest iron ore firm.
"The mining industry plays a crucial role as an enabler of the energy transition. The strong demand for high-quality minerals in China, Rio Tinto's largest market that accounts for over half of its revenue, has generated substantial opportunities for investment and trade," Barrios said.
"China's economy, up by 5 percent in the first half of this year, demonstrates economic resilience despite ongoing challenges. We believe the government's efforts in advancing high-quality development will generate sustained demand for minerals essential for the energy transition and present opportunities for multinational companies to deepen their strategic partnerships with China."
According to Barrios, China's manufacturing sector is strong with energy transition at the heart of its growth. This transition has accounted for nearly a third of Chinese GDP growth in 2023 with strong growth in the first half of 2024, he said.
China continues to be one of the fastest-growing major economies, a driving force for the global economy and the world's top consumer and producer of metals, while its focus on innovation, green technologies, and digitalization positions it well for future growth. Investments in these areas are likely to drive productivity and economic advancement, he said.
China continues to be a key market for global mining giants in the iron ore sector, thanks to its vast market size, with major players eager to forge new partnerships in an increasingly green-oriented world, said Zhao Xiangbin, chief strategist at Beijing Gold and Forex Fortune Investment Management.
"As the trend toward decarbonization accelerates, the steel industry will gradually transition from high-growth to high-quality development, a shift that will create greater growth opportunities for companies like Rio Tinto," Zhao said.
Historically, Rio Tinto's collaboration with China has focused on supplying iron ore to Chinese steel companies, but there has also been an increase in cooperation in the low-carbon sector, said the company.
"Moreover, China's expanding global influence in areas such as new energy vehicles and renewable energy will drive demand for higher-quality imports of copper, aluminum and other materials," he said.
Around 60 percent of new solar and renewables capacities are installed in China and nearly two-thirds of global EV production and sales are in the country. Last year, China surpassed Japan to become the world's top auto exporter.
In response to the increasing demand for mineral products in China, Rio Tinto has committed to increasing its investments and strengthening partnerships with Chinese counterparts in the coming years.
Over the years, Rio Tinto has focused on extending its partnership with China, collaborating with partners, including Aluminum Corp of China (Chinalco) and China Baowu Steel Group Corp, to jointly develop the world's largest undeveloped high-grade iron ore deposits in Simandou, Guinea, which will provide essential raw material for the future of green steel once operational, said Barrios.
#55
Chinese enterprises in the new energy sector, facing escalating trade restrictions initiated by some economies, are proactively adopting diversified strategies to ensure continued growth, with a focus on establishing overseas manufacturing facilities and exploring emerging markets, experts said.
China's electric vehicles, lithiumion batteries and photovoltaic products, dubbed the country's "new three" export categories, have seen remarkable growth in overseas shipments in recent years.
Driven by the accelerated global transition toward green energy, the combined annual export volume of these products surpassed 1.06 trillion yuan ($148.3 billion) last year, said the General Administration of Customs.
Leveraging economies of scale and continuous technological innovation, China has established a leading global position across the value chains of these burgeoning industries, said Liang Ming, director of the Institute of International Trade, which is part of the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation.
However, the rise of trade protectionism in certain countries has posed challenges to the global expansion of China's "new three "exports.
The United States, in May, decided to significantly increase tariffs on a range of Chinese products in the green tech sector. As well as a tariff increase from 25 percent to 100 percent on Chinese EVs, levies will rise from 7.5 percent to 25 percent on lithium batteries, and from 25 percent to 50 percent on solar cells.
Following Washington's stiff new tariffs, the European Union announced in July that provisional additional tariffs of up to 37.6 percent will be slapped on Chinese-made battery EVs.
Both Washington and Brussels, despite recognizing the importance of these sectors, lack the competitive edge enjoyed by China. This has led them to implement protectionist policies, aiming to create space for their own nascent industries, Liang said.
As trade protectionism continues to cast a shadow over Chinese business, proactive steps such as establishment of overseas manufacturing plants and diversification of export destinations have been adopted to navigate these challenges, analysts said.
In early June, a free trade agreement between China and Serbia came into effect, with both sides agreeing to eliminate tariffs on 90 percent of tariff lines reciprocally.
This includes key Chinese exports such as automobiles, photovoltaic modules and lithium-ion batteries, which will see their tariffs gradually reduced from the current 5-20 percent range down to zero when entering the Serbian market.
While Serbia's market size may not directly translate into significant export volume for China's green products, the China-Serbia FTA holds long-term strategic importance for expanding these clean energy technologies across the European market, said Dong Zhongyun, chief economist at AVIC Securities.
Exports of China's "new three "products can help Serbia accelerate the transformation of its energy system in a more cost-effective and efficient manner, Dong said, adding that this can serve as an example for other European countries, paving the way for deeper market penetration across the continent.
As China's manufacturing enterprises increasingly invest in countries like Serbia, Hungary, and Poland, surging demand for renewable energy solutions in these regions has become a key focus for the export of China's clean energy products, Dong said.
Beyond the traditional markets of Europe and the US, the need for power system upgrades and energy transitions in Central Europe, the Middle East, South Africa, Latin America and Southeast Asia has emerged as a strategic priority for the global expansion of China's "new three" exports.
In a series of recent strategic moves, several leading Chinese new energy enterprises have recently announced major investments and partnerships in Saudi Arabia.
Notably, Chinese photovoltaics manufacturer Sungrow Power Supply has signed three landmark energy storage contracts with Saudi Arabia's Algihaz Holding, amounting to the world's largest grid-side storage order. Each project will have a capacity of 2.6 gigawatt-hours, totaling 7.8 GWh.
China's rise as a clean energy powerhouse is the result of its commitment to an open and innovative approach. Protectionist trade policies, on the other hand, only serve to undermine the long-term competitiveness of industries, said Chen Wenling, chief economist at the China Center for International Economic Exchanges.
#56
China, celebrated for its strides in sectors such as electric vehicles, lithium-ion batteries and photovoltaic technologies, is now on the brink of embracing yet another major potential export product in the realm of new energy products - hydrogen electrolyzers.
Hydrogen electrolyzers use electricity to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. For decades, the hydrogen electrolyzer, a technology entrenched in China's industrial landscape, primarily served domestic sectors like glassmaking and steel, with only limited export orders.
However, as the global appetite for green hydrogen escalates, a transformative shift is underway. Chinese hydrogen electrolyzer exports are experiencing an unprecedented surge, propelled by booming demand for sustainable solutions in Europe and the Middle East, catapulting this once niche equipment onto the international stage, executives and analysts said.
Beijing Peric Hydrogen Technologies Co, a manufacturer of hydrogen electrolyzers, has seen its export revenue double for three consecutive years due to surging global demand, said Li Haipeng, the company's marketing director.
The company's export value of hydrogen electrolyzers reached approximately 70 million yuan ($9.8 million) in 2021, followed by a surge to around 170 million yuan in 2022 and a further jump to nearly 300 million yuan in 2023, Li said, adding that over the next 10 years, order volumes are expected to be over 10 times current levels.
Shandong Saikesaisi Hydrogen Energy Co expects its overseas revenue to overtake domestic performance by the end of this year. Looking beyond the immediate horizon, a bold prediction emerges as a potential reality - a growth surge of several magnitudes in the entire foreign market following a five-year development period.
Rewind the clock two decades and it would have been hard to imagine the vibrant export situation that China's hydrogen electrolyzer industry now commands, Li said, as the international market size was only around 500-600 million yuan back then.
The explosive growth in China's hydrogen electrolyzer exports can be traced back to the recent surge in global demand for green hydrogen, according to industry experts.
The International Energy Agency recently said that amid pathways to realizing net-zero emissions by 2050, global hydrogen demand is projected to climb to 528 million metric tons by the middle of the century.
In particular, the report said that around 60 percent of this hydrogen will be produced through water electrolysis, accounting for nearly 20 percent of the world's total electricity supply.
As countries and industries increasingly seek to decarbonize their operations, the need for high-performance, cost-effective hydrogen production solutions has skyrocketed - and China's electrolyzer manufacturers have been quick to capitalize on this global trend, said Yu Zhuoping, director of the expert committee for China Hydrogen Alliance.
To accommodate more overseas orders, Chinese electrolyzer manufacturers are proactively scaling up their production capabilities.
Li said the company has seen a remarkable increase in its production capacity, growing from just a few dozen units several years ago to approximately 350 units last year. Notably, its production in the first half had already doubled compared to the same period last year.
The company's production capacity will surpass 1,000 units next year, with at least 50 percent of that output earmarked for export, Li added.
Sinohydo, a company providing hydrogen production and storage solutions in Jiangsu province, is set to accelerate its production capacity in North China, focusing on the Inner Mongolia autonomous region's Ordos. Meanwhile, the company plans to develop and upgrade its facilities in the Yangtze River Delta.
In addition to domestic efforts, Sinohydo is actively pursuing strategic partnerships in Europe, the Middle East and Japan.
Despite different resource profiles, the objective is to tap into growing demand in Europe and the Middle East, according to company executives.
Hydrogen applications worldwide are moving beyond the demonstration phase into large-scale implementation, particularly in Europe and the Middle East. The development of renewable energy hydrogen projects is driving a significant shift in demand for hydrogen production equipment, said Chen Xuedong, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
The European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, rolled out its EU Hydrogen Strategy in 2020, setting ambitious targets that rely on the installation of at least 6 gigawatts of renewable hydrogen electrolyzers in the bloc by 2024, and aims to produce up to 1 million tons of renewable hydrogen.
In addition, hydrogen needs to become an intrinsic part of an integrated energy system with the objective of installing at least 40 GW of renewable hydrogen electrolyzers by 2030 and producing of up to 10 million tons of renewable hydrogen in the EU.
Drawing parallels with China's largest-scale photovoltaic-based green hydrogen plant in Kuqa, Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region - where 20,000 tons are produced annually, requiring hydrogen electrolyzer usage - the EU's vision dwarfs existing benchmarks, said Du Jiaen, deputy general manager for overseas markets of Sinohydo.
The EU's target of producing 1 million tons of green hydrogen annually equates to the output of 50 Xinjiang Kuqa projects. In essence, achieving this target would necessitate the deployment of 2,600 hydrogen electrolyzers, Du said.
The need for over 2,000 electrolyzers in Europe presents a significant challenge for Chinese companies, which, even with continuous 24-hour production, cannot meet the demand on time. This gap means a substantial opportunity for Chinese suppliers to expand their market presence in the region, Du added.
Moreover, as the Middle East accelerates its shift toward greener energy solutions, the region is also emerging as a lucrative market for Chinese businesses.
The Middle East, despite being a major oil-producing region, has long recognized the urgency of energy transition, said Chen of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
While the region has an abundance of photovoltaic power plants since its average annual sunshine is nearly twice that of China, it faces significant challenges in power consumption and grid integration, Chen said.
As a result, Middle Eastern countries are looking to produce green hydrogen and agricultural-use ammonia using low-cost electricity, leveraging their strategic location to export these resources to high-demand markets like Europe, Chen added.
As Chinese companies seek to expand their products beyond the domestic market, obtaining the necessary certifications and complying with international standards have become crucial prerequisites for success, industry insiders said, emphasizing that product certification is a major bottleneck facing Chinese enterprises in their globalization efforts.
The sheer diversity of standards and regulations in different countries and regions is truly staggering. The product certification process, which is essential for market access, is frequently accompanied by exorbitant costs, complex procedures and lengthy timelines, Du said.
Moreover, the electrolyzer is not a standalone device. It operates in conjunction with back-end separation and purification units to create a comprehensive hydrogen production system. This symbiotic relationship needs the back-end equipment to potentially undergo redesigns to align with specific customer needs, Du added.
Even in the face of considerable difficulties, it is remarkable to witness the unwavering enthusiasm and readiness exhibited by a multitude of manufacturers, Du said.
#57
Arkema, a French manufacturer of specialty materials, celebrates 40 years in China and declares its commitment to sustainable growth for the future.
"ESG has been our commitment, and we hope to use our expertise to achieve our carbon emission reduction goals," Marc Schuller, chief operating officer of Arkema Group, said during the company's four-decade celebration ceremony in Shanghai recently.
In May last year, the group announced an ambitious plan for decarbonization: By 2030, greenhouse gas emissions in "Scope 1" and "Scope 2" will decrease by 48.5 percent, while emissions in "Scope 3" will decrease by 54 percent compared to 2019, to achieve a net-zero carbon target by 2050.
The group plans to invest 400 million euros ($435.6 million) by 2030 to support this decarbonization plan. All production bases in China will benefit from this energy fund, engaging in activities related to energy conservation, emission reduction and low-carbon energy transformation.
The company has also set specific plans to guide daily work towards this goal, both on the production and sales sides. For example, a special team has been established to use various tools to monitor and manage energy consumption throughout production operations. Additionally, the company follows the "ABC" rules in operation, where "A" stands for advanced materials that are durable and sustainable, "B" for bio-based materials with leading expertise and "C" for circular materials that are reused to the maximum extent while preserving their performance.
Aiming to build a sustainable world with innovative materials, the company declares its focus on investing in five major submarkets before 2028: green energy and electric mobility, advanced consumer electronics, sustainable lifestyles, more efficient buildings and homes, water treatment, medical equipment, and crop nutrition, according to Zhang Xiaoyu, president of Arkema China.
In terms of green energy, at the beginning of this year, Arkema's ArrMaz factory in Yunnan fully adopted green electricity and signed the first long-term green power procurement framework agreement. In addition, its Sartomer and Bostik factories in Guangzhou have also signed contracts for 100 percent green electricity.
"We hope to leverage our position as a market leader to promote sustainable development, helping society achieve carbon neutrality while guiding our customers towards sustainable practices", said Liu Weiqing, a director from Arkema China.
Leveraging innovation and sustainable development as a differentiation strategy, Arkema has invested significantly in product development and intellectual property rights.
In 2023, Arkema China submitted 13 technology disclosures and 8 patent applications, with 94 percent related to sustainable development.
Ties with China
"The chemical industry, and green chemistry in particular, is a sector of excellence in France. The specialty materials solutions developed by Arkema perfectly illustrate the quality of French know-how," said Joan Valadou, consul general of France in Shanghai, during the celebration ceremony.
Arkema started operations in China as early as 1984, long before the Arkema Group was established in 2004. "Without the opportunity to build up our knowledge of the country, I'm not sure we would be where we are today," Marc told China Daily, appreciating that China and France built ties 60 years ago to facilitate business.
Today, headquartered in Shanghai, Arkema China has 3,000 employees, 10 production sites, and two research and development centers. Among them, the Suzhou Changshu base, as one of Arkema's largest global production platforms, has received a total investment of 600 million euros. After 11 years of development, the Changshu research center has evolved into Arkema's largest R&D hub in Asia. Additionally, Arkema China contributes 13 percent to the group's overall sales.
"The China market holds great strategic importance for Arkema, which is currently Arkema's second-largest national market," said Marc. "In the next five years, a significant portion of our group's growth may come from Asia, with a substantial part of it coming from China. I believe that this development will significantly impact us in various aspects," Marc said during an interview.
Arkema has continued to expand its investment scale in China in recent years and has deployed several key growth projects in the country. Last year, Arkema increased capital by 1 billion yuan ($137.7 million) in its subsidiaries in Shanghai, Zhangjiagang and Changshu.
At the end of last year, Arkema's Nansha plant in Guangzhou doubled the production capacity for Sartomer(r)'s specialty UV/LED curing resins. This expansion project will provide strong support for the electronics market in Asia and drive forward the development of renewable energy.
In addition, by 2025, the production capacity of organic peroxides at the Changshu base will be expanded to 2.5 times its original size. Luperox(r) organic peroxides, as a critical component in the photovoltaic panel manufacturing process, are playing an increasingly important role in the energy transition.
Furthermore, with an increasing number of Chinese companies expanding globally, Arkema perceives this trend as an opportunity, given its widespread presence across Europe, the Americas, the Middle East and Asia. In the future, Arkema aims not only to supply Chinese customers for their domestic needs, but also to accompany them in their export strategies and build their presence outside the country, according to Marc.
#58
China's new energy vehicle or NEV sector has achieved a milestone by surpassing the market share of fossil fuel-powered cars for the first time, in an accelerated drive toward a greener and more intelligent future.
Retail sales of NEVs nationwide reached 878,000 units in July, accounting for 51.1 percent of the total market, according to data released by the China Automobile Dealers Association.
It is a historic moment not only for the transformation of the country's automotive industry but also for the global shift toward green transportation, analysts said.
"This is the beginning of a 'qualitative change' in the NEV market," said Zheng Yun, a senior partner and Asia head of automotive practice at Roland Berger, a consultancy.
The NEVs' market share in China was just above 1 percent in 2015 but surged in the following years, thanks to an expedited green transition of the economy. The market penetration rate exceeding 50 percent marked a solid step toward accomplishing the government's target of making electric vehicles the mainstream of new automobile sales by 2035.
Industry insiders attributed the popularity of NEVs to factors ranging from favorable government policies to corporate innovation.
Traditional automakers like BYD have rapidly embraced electric and digital technologies, while more tech firms, including Xiaomi, are also scrambling for a foothold in the auto sector. Advances in core technologies from batteries to intelligent systems, and the formation of an efficient and reliable industry chain, have further enhanced the competitiveness of Chinese NEVs.
Bill Russo, founder and CEO of Automobility Ltd, noted that favorable subsidies and incentives initially spurred consumer interest in NEVs, but now consumers are driven by more diverse reasons.
New NEV models in China offer better experiences for tech-savvy users than before, with enhanced technology features, lower maintenance costs, a longer driving range and improved power performance.
China's rapid expansion of charging infrastructure has also alleviated drivers' anxiety over range. The total number of charging piles jumped 54 percent from a year ago to 10.24 million by the end of June.
"Demand-driven market rather than policy-driven market has become the main factor boosting the sales of domestic NEVs," said Liu Jia, an electronics and automotive analyst of Nomura Orient International Securities.
In July, NEV sales rose almost 37 percent year-on-year, while traditional fuel vehicle sales declined 26 percent.
As the world's largest auto market, China's shift toward the green-clean era could reshape the auto industry from a global perspective.
"The rapid development of China's NEVs will help promote the global electrification process," Liu said.
Technologically advanced and cost-effective NEVs from China are well received in various countries and contribute to local green energy transitions, and Chinese carmakers have also strengthened their global push by building assembly lines and battery plants overseas.
"Although electric vehicles in overseas markets have performed not as expected this year, foreign automakers, such as Japanese and European ones, still increased their NEV investment in expectation of big future changes," Liu said.
A report of the International Energy Agency showed electric cars, referring to both battery electric and plug-in hybrid cars, accounted for around 18 percent of all cars sold worldwide in 2023, up from 14 percent in 2022 and only 2 percent in 2018. "These trends indicate that growth remains robust as electric car markets mature," the report said.
The auto industry accounts for 20 percent of global energy consumption, making its structural change an advanced indicator of energy shifts in the broader economy, said Wang Honglin, a research fellow at the China Academy of Financial Research, which is part of Shanghai Jiaotong University.
"The rising NEV industry is changing the auto industry completely, as well as the landscape of the whole manufacturing sector across the globe," Wang said.
"From autonomous driving to vehicle networking and smart charging, the integration of NEVs with intelligent systems will create a safer, more efficient and environmentally friendly transportation ecosystem."
#59
Foreign participants at an international symposium on Thursday hailed China's achievements in green development and the country's contributions to the energy transition of other developing countries.
"China, the economically challenged country I first visited in 1988, is now the world leader in electric vehicles, renewable energy from wind, water and the sun itself. For the first time, wind and solar energy now produce more power than coal," said Harvey Cary Dzodin, chairman of the HCD Earthcare Culture Association.
"China is so successful that the United States and the European Union falsely accuse China of needlessly flooding their marketplaces with below market-priced subsidized EVs, solar panels and the like. At a time when the world faces an existential environmental threat to life on this planet as we know it, China's efforts should be celebrated and praised, not condemned and prevented," said Dzodin.
He was speaking at a symposium themed "Environment, Development and Human Rights: Green and Low-carbon Development in the Process of Modernization", which was held in Beijing on Thursday.
About 70 international experts from countries including the US, Malaysia, Uzbekistan, Cambodia and Thailand, attended the event, which was hosted by the China Foundation for Human Rights Development and China Datang Corp.
Speaking of the role of China in sustainable development, Lokita Prasetya, vice-president of PT Dian Swastatika Sentosa Tbk, an energy and infrastructure company in Indonesia, said, "China has taken a leading role in global renewable energy innovation and economic advancement, demonstrated by its ambitious goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2060."
Chuop Paris, secretary of state at the Cambodian Ministry of Environment, said that in the process of Cambodia's green and low-carbon development, the active participation and contributions of Chinese enterprises are crucial.
By the end of last year, the installed capacity of operational power projects led by Chinese enterprises in Cambodia accounted for about 60 percent of the entire installed capacity in the Southeast Asian country, reflecting Chinese firms' prominent contributions to energy transition and green low-carbon development in his nation, Paris said.
He added that projects contracted to be built by Chinese companies in Cambodia, which continuously supply electricity to hundreds of thousands of households, improve the livelihoods of people there.
Prior to the symposium, the international experts paid visits to the Inner Mongolia autonomous region and Zhejiang province to gain a greater understanding of various Chinese initiatives, including the high-quality development of new energy, grassroots ecological civilization construction, rural vitalization, as well as ecological restoration. Some experts observed the vibrant practices of Chinese modernization in Ningbo, Zhejiang, with a focus on green, low-carbon and sustainable development.
Ding Zhongli, vice-chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, China's top legislature, said at the symposium that China - holding high the great banner of a community with a shared future for mankind and aiming to build a cleaner and more beautiful world - is earnestly fulfilling its solemn commitments to its dual carbon goals.
Through high-quality platforms such as the Belt and Road Initiative, China actively engages in bilateral and multilateral green cooperation, making significant contributions to global sustainable development, said Ding.
"Practicing multilateralism, enhancing cooperation and upholding fairness and justice are the only correct paths in addressing global challenges like climate change. We look forward to the international community deepening mutually beneficial cooperation in key areas such as green infrastructure, green energy, green industries, green trade and green finance," he said.
#60
A 100 MW/200 MWh energy storage power station was recently put into operation and connected to the power grid in Wuzhong city in Northwest China's Ningxia Hui autonomous region.
Equipped with 35 energy storage units, the First Lujiayao Energy Storage Power Station will not only help balance electricity supply and demand but also significantly improve the stability and reliability of the local grid.
With the power station in place, Wuzhong's clean energy transition is expected to be further advanced.
To support the smooth operation of the power station, the State Grid's Wuzhong Power Supply Co said it built a new 110 kV transmission line in advance and provides the power station with high-quality services in all respects.
#61
The Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council have released guidelines aimed at accelerating green transition in the country's socioeconomic development.
The guidelines set ambitious goals, including achieving "remarkable results" in green transition by 2030 and establishing a green, low-carbon and circular economic system by 2035 as part of efforts to achieve the vision of a "Beautiful China".
They outline a series of tasks, such as optimizing land use, promoting green and low-carbon industrial and energy transitions, and advancing sustainable urban-rural development. Specific targets include expanding the value of the energy conservation and environmental protection industry to 15 trillion yuan ($2.1 trillion) and increasing the share of non-fossil energy to 25 percent of total energy consumption by 2030.
Additional goals include reducing the carbon emissions intensity of commercial transport by 9.5 percent and boosting the annual utilization of bulk solid waste to 4.5 billion metric tons by 2030.
The National Development and Reform Commission said the guidelines were issued following significant progress in green and low-carbon development since the 18th CPC National Congress in 2012.
By June this year, renewable energy accounted for 53.8 percent of China's total installed electricity generation capacity. Energy consumption per unit of GDP was down more than 26 percent from the level in 2012, and carbon emissions intensity per unit of GDP was down more than 35 percent.
However, the NDRC acknowledged ongoing challenges, such as the nation's continued reliance on coal and the high proportion of fossil fuels in the energy mix. The global green transition also faces setbacks, with environmental and climate issues becoming increasingly politicized, and green trade barriers escalating.
China will also pursue supportive fiscal and taxation policies to promote green and low-carbon development and develop financial instruments such as green equity financing and green financial leasing.
Experts highlighted the importance of a comprehensive approach to green transition, focusing on both supply and demand. Lin Boqiang, director of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, emphasized the need to address the rapid growth in energy demand alongside the expansion of renewable energy production.
"While new energy is growing rapidly, fossil fuel use is also increasing," Lin said. "To accelerate the green transformation, more effort is needed on the demand side."
Zhang Jianhua, director of the National Energy Administration, told a news conference in June that China's energy supply has grown by nearly 20 percent since the start of the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025).With ongoing industrialization and urbanization, energy demand is expected to continue rising.
Lin said: "The growth in energy demand is closely related to industrial development and people's lifestyles. Increasing energy prices is one of the most effective ways to mitigate the growth in energy demand, and it might be worth trying.
"For example, the electricity price in China is much lower than its actual cost in China with government subsidies. In the development process of the past few decades, we needed to first ensure that people had access to electricity. However, with economic development, the price of electricity can also be considered for adjustment.
"An increase in energy prices may have a restraining effect on industrial development. What we need to do is to generate more GDP with less energy."
Lin said that China's energy policy is formulated based on specific national conditions.
"Income levels, development stages and industrial chains vary among different countries, so there is no comparability in terms of energy policies," Lin said.
"China still has significant room for improvement in energy conservation and emission reduction and should adjust its industrial structure according to actual circumstances."
#62
The clean (new) energy industry contributed 11.4 trillion yuan ($1.6 trillion) to China's economy last year, accounting for 9 percent of the country's GDP and contributing 40 percent to its GDP growth.
The clean energy industry has been one of the main drivers of China's economic growth, and the country has made significant progress in virtually all major areas of clean energy.
According to a report by the International Energy Agency, China's solar and wind energy sectors have seen unprecedented growth in recent years. In 2023, for example, China commissioned as much solar photovoltaics as the world did in 2022, while its wind power additions grew by 66 percent year-on-year. By the end of 2023, the share of renewable energy in China's total installed power generation capacity had exceeded 50 percent, surpassing thermal power generation capacity for the first time.
In 2022, more than half of all fully electric cars in the world ran on Chinese roads. In 2023, China's new energy passenger vehicle production and sales grew by 35.8 percent and 37.9 percent, respectively, reaching 9.6 million and 9.5 million units, both accounting for about 63.5 percent of the global market, and the supply-demand gap was only around 1 percent. Moreover, among the 9.5 million units sold, domestic sales and exports were 8.3 million and 1.2 million units, respectively, meaning that 87 percent of the final demand is from the domestic market, showing little sign of "overcapacity".
With the increasing popularity of NEVs, the value chains of relevant products, technologies and industries have flourished. Promising areas include the manufacturing of critical components for electrification, such as batteries, electric motor drives and electric controls; the development of advanced technologies in autonomous driving and associated generative artificial intelligence, as well as the manufacturing of related components; and the construction of charging facilities. Overall, such a shift in the automotive industry toward electrification will significantly facilitate the transformation and upgrading of China's manufacturing sector.
Last year, China accounted for around 70 percent of the global NEV batteries (predominantly lithium-ion batteries) market, with six Chinese companies listed among the top 10.
Chinese lithium-ion battery makers stand out not only in their manufacturing volume but also in their robust patent portfolios. As of May 2023, 20,798 patent applications had been filed for key technologies in solid-state (lithium-ion) batteries worldwide, of which 7,649, or 36.7 percent, were filed by China. Over the past five years, China's average annual growth rate in global patent applications in this area was 20.8 percent, ranking first in the world, with its technological lead particularly pronounced in crucial aspects such as charging speed and cycle life.
According to a report by the Brussels-based think tank Strategic Perspectives, China covers 60 percent of the global zero-carbon technology manufacturing, while another report by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, or UNCTAD, noted that China accounted for 56 percent of the world's patents in green frontier technologies (including but not limited to solar PV, wind energy, EV and battery, and green hydrogen) in the past 20 years.
Nuclear power is a critical energy source for achieving the strategic goals of "double carbon targets", that is, to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and reach carbon neutrality by 2060.
Being one of the cleanest energy sources, nuclear energy does not generate greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide, thus reducing dependence on fossil fuels, which in turn reduces carbon emissions and environmental pollution. It also provides a much more stable and reliable power supply than renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar power, as it is less susceptible to weather and environmental conditions.
In China's future power system, nuclear power can potentially be positioned as a dispatchable power source and one of the stable baseload power sources to support and supplement wind and solar power. It can complement and coexist with renewable energy sources to provide green, safe and efficient energy and power, especially considering that the proportion of nuclear power generation in China is only half the world average.
The paramount challenge facing the development of nuclear power is safety. Therefore, ensuring the safe operation of nuclear power facilities while enhancing public acceptance and confidence is imperative. From a strategic point of view, nuclear power is also essential for ensuring national energy security.
If China is to achieve its strategic "dual-carbon goal", the role of some next-generation clean technologies, such as low-emission hydrogen and carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) technologies, should be identified as key priorities in the country's carbon neutrality guidelines.
In the case of hydrogen energy, policymakers have listed it as a frontier area and one of China's six major future industries, integrating its development into the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) and the medium- and long-term plan for hydrogen energy industry (2021-35). Accordingly, substantial investments are being made in hydrogen infrastructure, including fuel cells and refueling stations. Meanwhile, substantial R&D funds have been allocated to advance low-emission hydrogen production and storage technologies, as well as the application of hydrogen energy in industry, transportation and energy storage, with multiple pilot projects showcasing its potential.
Likewise, CCUS has been identified as an indispensable part of the carbon-neutral technology portfolio, a critical tool and a bottom-line technological guarantor for achieving the temperature control targets of the Paris Agreement, given the impossibility of phasing out fossil fuels completely. Indeed, China has made significant progress in the development of CCUS technology in recent years, with several large-scale CCUS pilot projects having been put into operation.
In short, it should be ensured that China has secured sufficient investment in next-generation clean technologies and is confident that it will maintain its competitive edge in these emerging fields in the future.
Against the backdrop of a global energy transition and after many years of development, the clean (new) energy industry has become and will continue to be one of the main drivers of China's economic growth, supporting a large number of jobs, especially in high-end manufacturing and R&D, and facilitating the transformation and upgrading of China's manufacturing sector.
China's massive investment in clean energy also suggests that clean energy products will become China's most essential and competitive exports in the future, as foreshadowed by the recent surge in exports of the "new trio", namely, electric vehicles, lithium-ion batteries and solar photovoltaic cells.
On a global scale, thanks to the technological, manufacturing and engineering advances of Chinese companies over the last decade, the global average costs of wind/solar power generation and lithium-ion batteries have fallen dramatically, contributing immensely to the global transition to green and low-carbon energy.
As the global green and low-carbon market continues to expand, China will continue to provide high-quality new energy products to the rest of the world through exports and various forms of international cooperation in production capacity, which will facilitate the global green and low-carbon transition and the fight against climate change, export growth and jobs to other economies, and share with them the benefits of its progress.
#63
Saudi Arabian Oil Company, commonly known as Saudi Aramco, has signed definitive agreements to acquire a 10 percent equity interest in HORSE Powertrain Limited, a global powertrain solutions company formed by Renault Group and Chinese automaker Geely Auto Group, the Saudi Press Agency (SPA) reported on Saturday.
According to a statement by Aramco, after the acquisition, Renault and Geely will each retain a 45-percent equity stake, and the price to be paid by Aramco at closing, which is subject to customary closing conditions including the receipt of regulatory approvals, will be based on an enterprise valuation of 7.4 billion euros ($7.93 billion).
The investment aims to enhance Aramco's contribution to the global energy transition through the development and commercialization of more efficient mobility solutions, the SPA reported.
"Aramco's investment is expected to directly contribute to the development and deployment of affordable, efficient, and lower-carbon emission internal-combustion engines globally," said Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, Aramco's executive vice-president of technology and innovation.
"With Geely and Renault, we plan to leverage our collective expertise and resources to support ground-breaking advances in both engine and fuel technologies," he added.
Meanwhile, HORSE Powertrain Limited said in a press release on its website that the investment by Aramco will support its growth and contribute to the development of competitive powertrains and synthetic fuel solutions.
It noted that the company is expected to produce 5 million powertrain units annually, encompassing a complete portfolio of advanced powertrain technologies for partners around the world.
#64
The 2024 World New Energy and New Materials Conference started in the city of Ordos - located in North China's Inner Mongolia autonomous region - on July 26.
With its theme of "New Quality Productive Forces, New Driving Forces for Economy", the two-day conference is looking at cutting-edge intelligence, showcasing leading industrial achievements and exploring the latest directions in the sector.
The organizers say it aims to drive forward potentially revolutionary technological breakthroughs, the innovative allocation of the factors of production and to facilitate in-depth industrial transformations and upgrades.
The conference features the World New Energy and New Materials Exhibition and the 2024 Ordos Net-Zero Industry Conference.
It also includes the New Energy and New Quality Productivity Development Conference and the Coal-Based New Materials Sub-Forum.
To enhance the event's international scope, the event is for the first time concurrently hosting the Northeast Asia Regional Governments Association Subcommittee on Energy Cooperation Conference.
This initiative aims to build a platform for regional energy exchanges and cooperation - promoting the prosperity and progress of the energy industry in Northeast Asia.
During the conference, significant technological achievements in the new energy and new materials fields were unveiled - including in areas ranging from biomass to aviation fuel key technology and in silicon carbon anode materials.
Additionally, the 2024 Hurun China Top 100 New Energy Potential Enterprises list and the 2024 Hurun China Top 100 New Materials Companies list were released at the event, with five Ordos-based companies making the cut.
In a video address at the opening ceremony, Francesco La Camera, director-general of the International Renewable Energy Agency, highlighted China's pivotal role in promoting renewable energy.
He noted that about 63 percent of the global increase in renewable energy capacity last year occurred in China, which was also a major player in global renewable energy investment.
La Camera emphasized the close cooperation being undertaken with China's National Energy Administration and other stakeholders to support the global energy transition.
Du Huiliang, mayor of Ordos, told the conference that since the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25), his city had focused on building a significant national energy and strategic resource base.
Moreover, Ordos had achieved breakthroughs in several key technologies for clean and efficient energy utilization and established mechanisms for green and low-carbon energy development - contributing positively to the national dual carbon strategy, as well as the country's energy transition and energy security.
#65
China's natural-gas consumption is expected to rise by 6.5 to 7.7 percent year-on-year in 2024, a report issued by National Energy Administration showed Tuesday.
Total natural-gas consumption in the country will reach up to 425 billion cubic meters this year, according to the report.
In 2024, China's total natural-gas output is estimated at 246 billion cubic meters, an increase of 10 billion cubic meters.
The report predicted that the global supply of natural gas will remain relatively sufficient in the second half of the year, while also cautioning against market uncertainties such as geopolitical conflicts and extreme weather conditions.
Natural gas plays a pivotal role in energy transition. China has been working to improve the production, supply, storage and sales system in the country, part of efforts to ensure energy security and achieve its dual carbon goals.
Last year, the country consumed a total of 394.5 billion cubic meters of natural gas, up 7.6 percent year-on-year. Natural gas accounted for 8.5 percent of China's total primary energy consumption, an increase of 0.1 percentage points from the previous year, data from the report showed.
#66
China's economic development has made it a key player in the global economy, which will continue to shape global economic growth and technological innovation, including the development of green iron for green transition, in the years to come, said a top executive of Fortescue, a West Australian company specializing in iron ore.
The prospects for China's continued growth remain bright, driven by domestic consumption, technological innovation and participation in global initiatives such as the green energy transition, said Dino Otranto, Fortescue Metals CEO.
"Fortescue has been investing heavily in technology and building genuine and trusting friendships with our Chinese partners, underpinning the success and longevity of what has been a mutually beneficial partnership," he said.
"Working with China will help give Fortescue a competitive advantage to achieve our decarbonization targets and has the potential to deliver massive economic opportunities in both countries."
The strength of the bilateral relationship, built through its traditional iron ore business over the past two decades, will provide the critical foundations for the next chapter focused on both countries' green transformation, he said.
According to Otranto, Fortescue is committed to working with its Chinese partners to build a supply chain aimed at providing green iron metal to China by capitalizing on the abundance of solar and wind energies in Australia, the existing financial and technical capabilities of China's manufacturers of innovative green equipment, and Fortescue's green tech and iron ore supply.
The company is committed to providing 100 million metric tons of green iron metal to China each year, eliminating more than 200 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions. The equipment and technology will be sourced from China and Australia, he said.
"From next year, we aim to produce green iron from our Green Iron Metal Commercial Plant whose construction will start within the next few months. This will be able to produce more than 1,500 tons of green iron every year using green hydrogen produced at Christmas Creek (in the Pilbara region of western Australia) and will be suitable for use in almost any steel plant globally."
Fortescue will be supplying 2,000 tons of green iron metal to China within 12 months, he said.
An analyst said green iron metal supply chain between Australia and China will create great opportunities for the green industry in both countries.
"With the support of the Chinese government and the innovation and cooperation of both countries' industrial and technology sectors, the green iron metal supply chain will develop the potential to bring massive economic and environmental value to both countries," said Zhao Xiangbin, chief strategist at Beijing Gold and Forex Fortune Investment Management.
"China remains a market for many global mining giants' iron ore business due to its massive market, with many mining behemoths, including Rio Tinto and Vale, now looking forward to building new relationships in a green-focused world."
According to Otranto, partnering with China to help make its steel industry green will be a major benefit to both economies and to bilateral relations, shoring up Australia as China's reliable and preferred commodity supplier.
"China's just-concluded third plenary session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China has emphasized the importance of energy transition, which we believe will be providing massive opportunities for global mining companies like Fortescue amid the improved business environment in the country in recent years," Otranto said.
#67
China has reiterated its stance on reaching a mutually acceptable solution to a trade spat involving Chinese electric vehicles exported to the European Union as talks between the two sides continue.
Scholars and stakeholders have elaborated on the indispensable role of Chinese EV makers, given their scale advantages and leading technologies capable of catering to diversified consumer needs, and, broadly speaking, the world's need to go green.
Indispensable EVs
There has been growing consensus that the world will require significantly accelerated development in the field of green energy to push forward decarbonization, and that China's affordable clean tech products will only make positive contributions to that end.
Jeremy Jurgens, managing director of the World Economic Forum, said in a recent interview that China is clearly already leading in new energy technology, represented by EVs. He noted that the country's EV sector has strong advantages spanning battery technology, software development and a large domestic market.
The 1.4 billion people in China mean varied individual tastes in different regions and cities, he said. As the car moves from a mechanical device to a software device, the ability to adapt software to different interests becomes an important competitive advantage. "So the extent that China can adapt that software in the vehicle to different market preferences and needs will actually be a strong competitive advantage in the future."
Douglas Johnson-Poensgen, CEO of Circulor, a solutions provider that can trace the auto industry's complex supply chains, told Xinhua that the world needs more renewable energy and a faster energy transition.
"We're all humans on the same planet. We need to build renewable energy infrastructure at the pace if we have any chance of getting toward net-zero carbon emissions in a sensible time frame," Johnson-Poensgen said.
He added that China clearly has economic leadership when it comes to producing green products and driving down the prices of EVs and solar panels to make them more affordable, which will ultimately be good for the world.
"It's pretty clear that the future will be in electrical vehicles," Jurgens said, acknowledging the disruption that the rapid advancement of EVs has brought to traditional manufacturers that have not yet transitioned from internal combustion engines to EVs.
"It is understandable that some countries may want to delay that transition to be able to allow their domestic producers more time to make the transition. But overall, I think we still need to have far more production of electric vehicles to further electrify the economy," Jurgens said. The advancement and dissemination of these technologies will allow consumers to start shifting their energy consumption patterns, he added.
"As China looks for sustainable, affordable and secure energy sources, China not only improves its own position, it actually makes a contribution to global sustainability and can help the world achieve decarbonization targets," he said.
Competition benefits
Accusations have arisen that Chinese EVs are being dumped in global markets at low prices, but consumers doubt the logic of such rhetoric as not everyone can easily afford an expensive EV.
A recent report from the Canada-based Toronto Star interpreted this vividly, arguing that car drivers must be considered in tariff responses because people are the ones who buy cars, and not all consumers can afford a Tesla or a Polestar. "We must not penalize consumers and slow our climate efforts in the meantime."
It said an "inelegant" trade move could result in even fewer models and higher prices for consumers.
Danny Quah, dean of the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore, said that dumping is when an exporter sells a product in a foreign country at a price lower than it does on its own, hence running losses. He said that many Chinese products - especially batteries and EVs - are cheaper in China than in Western markets, including the EU.
He said that China's exports of EVs are only about 14 percent of its total production - a smaller fraction than that of cars exported from Japan and South Korea. "China subsidizes the EV industry, yes, but for consumers to purchase EVs, not for producers to make them. Those subsidies can purchase Teslas just as easily as BYDs."
"While rightly looking out for their own industries and businesses, everyone needs to think a little also about the good of our planet. The world needs clean energy. Emerging economies still need massive sustained bursts of energy to develop, and they cannot afford costly technologies to replace fossil fuels," he added.
Jurgens said that most of the EV supply is in fact for Chinese consumption, and that the rate of growth of EV utilization in China is very high and probably growing at the fastest pace in the world. "If you look at the actual market dynamics here, this is one of the most competitive markets in the world."
#68
JinkoSolar, the world's largest solar panel producer by shipments, said it will press ahead with overseas expansion plans despite the current geopolitical and "overcapacity" challenges, and actively develop its energy storage business to further facilitate a global energy transition.
Even though concerns persist over so-called solar panel overcapacity, which has trimmed the returns of Chinese solar firms, the company believes the most advanced capacity will always remain in demand, while low-end overlapping capacity will always be in surplus, said Qian Jing, vice-president of JinkoSolar, on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum's 15th Annual Meeting of the New Champions, or 2024 Summer Davos.
Qian said the government's recent commitment to limit "low-end" solar panel manufacturing following a representation by industry leaders earlier this month, will better regulate the industry toward a more sustainable development.
The National Energy Administration has vowed to guide capacity expansions and avoid redundant investments, monitoring solar factory utilization and expansion plans to help improve market conditions, in response to solar companies' requests seeking Beijing's intervention after a surge in capacity.
The growth of solar power over the past two decades has been phenomenal, from a niche sector to the world's dominant source of new energy. China and the global market still show strong demand prospects for clean energy, prompting the solar industry's top players to further expand high-efficiency capacity in the long term.
Qian attributed the recent "overcapacity" to investments in the previous years and capital market enthusiasm. Over the long term, she sees an industry shakeout - which is expected to eliminate lagging low-end capacity - as being beneficial for JinkoSolar, as the company has been stepping up efforts in research and development, investing billions of dollars in technological innovation.
With low-end capacity set to be eliminated, the company is confident about its market share rising to 20 percent in 2024 from last year's 15 percent, further consolidating its position at home and abroad, she said.
The company currently operates three overseas factories, in Malaysia, Vietnam and the United States. It is in the process of evaluating its fourth plant abroad, which is most likely to be located in the Middle East, as it enjoys better credit, sufficient financing resources, stable conditions, policy support and an ambitious market, she said. JinkoSolar's commitment toward long-term strategic overseas expansion remains unchanged, while it will also stay cautious when choosing the site, taking into consideration technological standards, costs and competitiveness, she said.
According to Qian, while the current cost of solar power has fallen below that of coal-fired power, the renewable energy source will only become absolutely competitive when the combined cost of solar and energy storage is equal to that of coal-fired electricity.
"Renewable energy's intermittency can only be fully addressed when energy storage costs are on par with coal-fired power. JinkoSolar is significantly investing in energy storage, which is the company's second-largest growth sector," she said.
New energy storage, or energy storage using new technologies such as lithium-ion batteries, liquid flow batteries, compressed air and mechanical energy, is an important foundation for building a new power system in China, enjoying the advantages of quick response, flexible configuration and short construction periods.
JinkoSolar aims to become the world's leading energy storage company within the next three to five years.
The nation's energy storage capacity further expanded in the first quarter of 2024 amid efforts to advance its green energy transition, with installed new-type energy storage capacity reaching 35.3 gigawatts by end-March, soaring 2.1 times year-on-year, according to the National Energy Administration.
#69
Chinese energy firms should recalibrate their overseas strategies from mere product exports to establishing local production capacities to explore new avenues for growth amid ongoing trade tensions and geopolitical conflicts, an executive from Ernst & Young (China) told China Daily.
Alex Zhu, energy, infrastructure advisory and carbon neutrality leader of EY China, underscored the importance of strengthening and cultivating collaborative partnerships with local producers. For better cooperation, he also said companies should study policies and their measurable impacts in foreign markets. This understanding facilitates timely adjustments to their international development strategies and business models.
"The key is to expand value chains, share benefits and jointly mitigate risks with local enterprises. This strategic approach prioritizes sustainable market entry and expansion strategies over mere reliance on low-cost sales," he said.
While suggesting Chinese energy firms set up overseas production bases, Zhu emphasized that the move is supported by notable demand from foreign markets where clients favor localized energy production, investments, supply chains and services.
Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, said, "Against the backdrop of deglobalization, foreign clients are also shifting their focus from minimizing costs to supply chain security and on-time delivery, thus favoring suppliers capable of producing components and equipment locally, and providing services near their sites."
The China Photovoltaic Industry Association said Chinese companies have announced substantial overseas capacity expansions in recent years. From 2022 to October 2023, plans include over 26 gigawatts of silicon wafer capacity, 60.8 GW of cells and 47.5 GW of modules in Southeast Asia. In the United States, projections include over 19 GW of module capacity and 5 GW of cells. In the Middle East, an emerging PV trade partner with China, plans involve more than 170,000 metric tons of polysilicon, over 50 GW of silicon wafers and 5 GW of cells.
"Chinese energy companies should also enhance technological capabilities and optimize services to increase value. Moreover, further efforts are needed to foster local partnerships to create mutually beneficial ecosystems," Zhu said.
In May, the US government decided to impose additional tariffs on imports of Chinese products including electric vehicles, lithium-ion batteries and solar cells on top of existing tariffs under Section 301 of the US Trade Act of 1974. In particular, the import tax on Chinese solar cells will rise from 25 percent to 50 percent.
On June 12, the European Commission's monthslong antisubsidy investigation into Chinese EVs led to preliminary results proposing extra temporary antisubsidy tariffs of up to 38.1 percent on EV imports from China.
Lin said the additional tariffs show the US is concerned about the rapid growth of the Chinese energy industry, which it sees as a potential threat to US competitiveness.
"Concerns have been heightened in Western nations given the rapid growth of China's solar sector. The advancement of China's PV industry plays a pivotal role in ensuring a stable supply of solar products to address climate change worldwide, making solar power one of the most economical power sources for the vast majority of countries and regions globally," said Liu Yiyang, deputy secretary-general of the CPIA.
Zhu from EY China emphasized the pivotal role of China's energy transition in global efforts to combat climate change and shift toward renewable energy.
"China, as the world's largest producer and consumer of renewable energy, significantly influences the global transition from fossil fuels to renewables across both supply and demand aspects. Leveraging its extensive advantages in the renewable energy supply chain, China excels in providing cost-effective global solutions, effectively alleviating the cost pressures of the global energy transition.
"Additionally, China has accumulated substantial expertise in advancing renewable energy production, power-grid connection, power scheduling and transmission, new energy storage technologies and EVs. China's experiences serve as a valuable reference for other countries and regions," he said.
Looking ahead to the domestic market, Zhu highlighted that China's energy transition this year will focus on overcoming systemic challenges and bottlenecks, particularly in sectors affecting renewable energy's connection to the grid, interprovincial transmission and consumption.
Zhu underscored the urgency to accelerate the development of the electricity market to meet burgeoning consumer demand. Furthermore, Zhu anticipated rapid advancements in emerging sectors such as virtual power plants.
"Digital information technology will continue to empower the energy sector's green transition with further potential for development in fields such as renewable energy's connection to the grid, energy demand response and comprehensive energy services.
"In the past few years, technologies such as big data, artificial intelligence, internet of things and blockchain have been increasingly integrated throughout the energy sector's industry chain - including construction, production, operations and customer service. These innovations not only drastically enhance production efficiency, but also foster the emergence of innovative business models," he said.
#70
Chinese wind turbine manufacturers have been accelerating their global expansion in recent years, exhibiting their prowess at home and abroad, driven by technological advances and large-scale investment, said industry experts and company executives.
While Chinese wind turbine manufacturers have struggled to compete with international giants such as Vestas and General Electric for a long time, they have solidified their position as global leaders in recent years, setting new records while shaping the future of green energy worldwide, they said.
Chinese wind turbine manufacturers are making strides in the overseas wind power market, securing notable contracts in recent years, said global consultancy Rystad Energy.
While the scale of these international orders remains minor compared to domestic demand in China, they hold strategic importance, helping Chinese original equipment manufacturers accumulate a track record while gaining global recognition, much like what the solar power sector experienced a decade ago, it said.
Guangdong province-based Mingyang Smart Energy Group, for example, has delivered 30 megawatts of wind turbines for the Taranto offshore wind farm in Italy, and is also one of seven contenders in Norway's first commercial offshore wind farm tender. Meanwhile, Zhejiang province-based Windey Energy Technology Group Co Ltd has secured nearly 1 GW of deals in Serbia from Italian energy company Fintel Energia.
Some of the country's wind turbine manufacturers are also contemplating establishing manufacturing bases or acquiring projects abroad, or setting up production facilities in countries like Brazil and India for a larger share of the global market, it said.
Qin Haiyan, secretary-general of the Chinese Wind Energy Association, said supportive industrial policies have been instrumental in the rapid development of China's wind energy sector in recent years, positioning the country as the global leader in renewable energy capacity and related technological advancement.
Chinese OEM firms have dominated the domestic and international markets with an unprecedented number of new turbines, achieving the global lead in average turbine size, Qin said.
China has by far the world's largest wind turbine production capacity, or 60 percent of the total 163 GW in 2023, according to the Brussels-based Global Wind Energy Council. Production capacity in Europe and the United States, by contrast, stood at 19 percent and 9 percent respectively, it said.
China has long supported the development of wind farms and turbine production as part of its ambitious climate goals to reach peak emissions before 2030. In an annual report to China's legislature in March, Premier Li Qiang vowed to unleash new quality productive forces to drive growth in high-tech manufacturing.
Consultancy Wood Mackenzie said Chinese wind turbine makers' expanding presence on the global stage, which made up four of the world's top five manufacturers last year - the first time they achieved such dominance worldwide - came on the back of strong growth in their home market.
China exported about $1.42 billion worth of wind turbines and components to the EU last year, it said.
Chinese turbine manufacturer Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co Ltd had the largest foreign footprint of the Chinese players, with 748 MW, followed closely by Envision with 561 MW and Vestas - the only Western OEM firm in the global top five - according to the 2023 Global Wind Turbine Market Shares report from BloombergNEF.
The accelerated installations, combined with a mature supply chain and ambitious provincial targets, are pushing wind deployment to an unprecedented level in China, it said.
It's no surprise that Chinese wind turbine makers dominated the top 10 firms providing turbines worldwide last year, as buildout of gigawatt-scale wind projects sent installations soaring, said Cristian Dinca, wind analyst at BloombergNEF.
In the offshore wind sector, Chinese turbine maker Mingyang Smart Energy Group doubled its annual installations to almost 3 GW last year, becoming the largest global supplier of offshore turbines for the first time.
Mingyang unveiled plans last year for a new offshore wind turbine, which, at 22 MW, will be the largest such turbine in the world.
In addition to output, Chinese wind turbine manufacturers also lead in product design and innovation. The last four years have seen 426 new Chinese turbine models released, versus just 29 new turbines outside China.
Chinese companies commissioned 1.7 GW of wind projects in 20 overseas markets last year, including five EU member states, almost three times as many markets as in 2018, the BloombergNEF report said, adding that prices for Chinese turbines are about 20 percent lower than US and European equivalents.
The top five destination countries for Chinese manufactured wind turbine exports have been Vietnam (23 percent), followed by Australia (13.1 percent), India (7.4 percent), the US (6.4 percent) and Kazakhstan (5.2 percent) during the past few years, with a growing interest in exports to emerging markets such as the Middle East and Latin America in recent years, where wind turbine costs are a critical factor in procurement decisions, said Rystad Energy.
The export of wind turbine components from China to Europe, including blades, generating sets, gearboxes and nacelles - making up about 30 to 70 percent of Europe's relevant imports - plays a crucial role in the European wind power supply chain, it said. Amid strategic considerations in wind turbine and component trading, pricing remains an underlying factor shaping the competitive landscape, it added.
Christian Bruch, CEO of Siemens Energy, said, "Trying to build a wind turbine without Chinese supplies will be almost impossible, and the energy transition won't work without China."
Bruch said wind unit Siemens Gamesa would not be able to compete in markets where it was up against two or three Chinese players if price was the only consideration.
Due to technological advances and fierce competition, prices of Chinese turbines dropped by more than 30 percent in 2023, Wood Mackenzie said.
Siemens Energy sees its wind division relying almost entirely on rare earth elements and permanent magnets from China, according to Reuters, adding that while some European governments suggested companies cut their relative exposure to China, the leaders of companies such as BASF have increased their engagement with the country.
It reflects the dilemma of an industry in need of supplies from the world's second-largest economy, but not the competition that comes with it, it added.
Industry experts believe the wind power sector in China will grow rapidly in the coming years, with wind turbines becoming bigger, entailing taller hub heights and larger rotor diameters.
According to Qin from the Chinese Wind Energy Association, wind power is preferred because it is not only green, but also cost-effective and cheaper compared to traditional fossil fuels like coal.
Chinese wind turbine manufacturers are likely to continue accelerating their efforts to capture overseas markets through exports with cost advantages and technological advances, which have led to a steep reduction in the price of turbines. Together with the government's ambitious renewable energy targets, these will offer a chance for Chinese companies to further expand their global footprint, he said.
The export of wind turbines produced by Chinese OEM firms increased significantly between 2016 and 2021, said Rystad Energy. However, when compared to China's annual wind power additions in 2022, which amounted for around 50 GW, exports during the same period only accounted for slightly more than 4 percent of the annual installation volume, leaving substantial room for further development, it said.
#71
The main forum of Shanghai International Carbon Neutrality Expo 2024 kicked off on Friday morning, shining a spotlight on China's dedication to achieving carbon neutrality and the expo's role as a hub for stakeholders to engage in enriching dialogues, exchange experiences, and forge robust collaborations to bolster global climate governance efforts.
Themed Pathway Toward Carbon Neutrality, the four-day expo, which started on June 5, aims to serve as a dynamic platform showcasing cutting-edge practices in green innovation and exploring the trends and technologies driving the journey toward carbon neutrality.
The event is hosting themed exhibitions that have drawn together more than 600 companies from 14 countries and regions in an expansive exhibition space that exceeds 100,000 square meters within the Shanghai New International Expo Center.
The expo also includes a main forum and six parallel forums at Shanghai's Kerry Hotel Pudong, where delegates are delving into topics including green supply chain initiatives, green energy transformations, low-carbon supply chain construction, and emerging trends in carbon neutrality technology.
During the main forum, Shanghai Mayor Gong Zheng underscored the city's strides toward evolving into a globally influential socialist modern international metropolis, emphasizing the city's unwavering commitment to eco-friendly, green, and low-carbon development underpinned by innovative technologies.
Gong outlined strategic initiatives aimed at advancing the energy revolution, establishing clean, low-carbon, safe, and efficient energy systems, and fostering the rapid proliferation of new-energy vehicles.
In alignment with Gong's vision, Liu Zheming, China's special envoy for climate change affairs, reaffirmed the nation's resolute commitment to attaining carbon neutrality and to supporting other developing nations in their climate change efforts.
Liu emphasized China's progress in pursuing the "Dual Carbon" goals, with targets set to peak carbon emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.
He stressed the critical importance of sustained efforts toward these ambitious goals, highlighting Shanghai's expertise in low-carbon industries, green technologies, climate finance, the circular economy, and ecological urban planning.
Liu also expressed confidence in Shanghai's potential to serve as a model and a catalyst for local climate actions, both within the country and on the global stage.
The main forum also featured keynote speeches by Huang Zhen, an academician from the Chinese Academy of Engineering Science and director of the Yangtze River Delta Carbon Neutrality Industry-University-Research Alliance, and Adair Turner, chairman of the Energy Transitions Commission, who offered insights into the path to carbon neutrality and the pivotal role of green innovation in combating climate change.
A significant highlight of the main forum was the launch of the CN100 Alliance, a collaborative platform aimed at fostering communication and cooperation among key stakeholders in the green supply chain. The initiative encourages participants to strive for 100 percent carbon neutrality, emphasizing the importance of collective action and shared responsibility in the journey toward a sustainable future.
#72
Officials from the United States and China gathered on Wednesday in Berkeley, California, putting aside national tensions to focus on a shared challenge: climate change.
California Governor Gavin Newsom emphasized the importance of open communication and trust-building in tackling the climate crisis at the event co-hosted by the California-China Climate Institute.
"It's about sharing, it's about openness, and it's about building a framework of trust," Newsom said, noting his October visit to China where he met Chinese President Xi Jinping.
"You find those areas of cooperation and agreement and you rush to develop that framework of understanding, that capacity to partner and achieve together," Newsom told the audience, including a Chinese delegation of more than 100 provincial- and city-level officials.
"I'm committed in this relationship, particularly between China and the United States," he said. "No more important bilateral relationship in the world as it relates to the issue of climate change."
Chinese Ambassador to the United States Xie Feng delivered remarks via video at the opening ceremony.
"Over the past decade and more, China-US climate cooperation has gone through ups and downs," he said. "We worked closely to bring the international community together to adopt the milestone Paris Agreement.
"Later, though, such cooperation was stalled for reasons known to all. In recent years, climate cooperation has again resumed. If we can draw any inspiration from this, it is that China-US climate cooperation is inseparable from the overall China-US relationship," he said.
"It certainly will not work if one asks for dialogue and cooperation but keeps damaging the other side's interests at the same time, or tries to build roads on one hand but keeps digging holes on the other."
Jerry Brown, former governor of California and chair of the California-China Climate Institute, said competition will not solve the climate crisis.
"The problems we face are bigger than one country ... the most important possible partnership in the world today is China and the US," Brown said. "Pure competition without cooperation will lead to disaster."
The gathering serves as a concrete step toward fulfilling the Sunnylands Statement on Enhancing Cooperation to Address the Climate Crisis, a joint commitment made by both countries during the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in San Francisco in November.
President Xi and US President Joe Biden held a summit and laid out the San Francisco vision, a road map for a sound, stable and sustainable development of China-US relations. While speaking on the phone last month, the two presidents reaffirmed the importance of turning the vision into reality.
Since November's summit, a working group has been established between the two countries. Earlier this month, China's Special Envoy for Climate Change Liu Zhenmin visited the US and held climate talks with John Podesta, senior adviser to Biden on international climate policy.
The talks were "in-depth and productive" and focused on the priorities identified in the Sunnylands statement, ranging from energy transition and methane reduction to deforestation and subnational action, Podesta said in a video message.
"The US and China have to lead the way even as the overall relationship between our two countries has increasingly been characterized by competition," he said.
"We have an obligation to our citizens and the people of the world to communicate, cooperate and collaborate where we can to tackle the climate crisis."
He stressed the importance of subnational exchanges and collaboration, because local governments are the ones implementing national policies.
"For instance, with some localities in China having already peaked their emissions nearly a decade ago, we look forward to hearing more about how China's provinces and cities are accelerating progress toward their national climate targets," he said.
He specifically commended the cooperation between US and Chinese local leaders in recent years, such as the green shipping corridor between Los Angeles and Shanghai, and local and regional solutions to accelerate the deployment of clean energy in communities.
Rick Duke, deputy special envoy for climate at the US Department of State, applauded Chinese local governments' "strong targets", citing Shenzhen's achievement of converting entire fleets of buses and taxis to electric vehicles, and 27 Chinese provinces and cities signing the US-China Climate Leaders' Declaration that pledged early carbon peaking before 2030.
He mentioned promising areas for joint technological development, such as carbon capture, utilization and storage, as well as pilot projects for full-scale commercial application.
Zhao Chenxin, a member of the visiting delegation and vice-chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, emphasized the vast business opportunities arising from China's green transformation.
"China's carbon peak and carbon neutrality goals would require investments of 80 trillion yuan ($11 trillion) and 20 trillion yuan ($2.8 trillion) respectively," he said.
#73
Fueled by strong demand from the industrial sector amid an economic recovery and industrial decarbonization, China's liquefied natural gas imports could hit a record in 2024, company executives and experts said.
China, the world's top importer of the super-chilled fuel, is on course to import around 80 million metric tons of LNG this year, driven by increased demand from the industrial and commercial sectors, said Zhang Yaoyu, global head of LNG and new energies for PetroChina International under China National Petroleum Corporation.
China's LNG imports rose 12.6 percent year-on-year in 2023 to 71.32 million tons, overtaking Japan as the world's largest LNG importer. This was a significant rise compared to 63.44 million tons of LNG imported in 2022.
China has shipped nearly 20 million tons of LNG already during the first three months, with the chemicals, paper, steel and cement industries driving growth in demand, making the estimated 80 million tons achievable, said Zhang.
Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF, said China has become the dominant force in LNG worldwide amid the country's energy transition.
Gas consumption in the transport sector, seen as a relatively clean bridge fuel, is projected to experience the fastest growth due to the cost-effectiveness of natural gas commercial vehicles, she said.
The country's State-owned enterprises have also led China's expansion of its capacity to handle LNG, while private companies are playing an increasingly active role in building LNG terminals, she said.
About 60 percent of the LNG facilities under construction are by State-owned enterprises and the rest by private domestic companies, she said.
BloombergNEF said it expects China's base-case natural gas demand in 2024 to increase 8 percent year-on-year to 421 billion cubic meters, while LNG imports are estimated to rise 17 percent annually to 81 million tons this year.
The transportation sector is expected to see the largest increase in gas consumption during the warmer months (April to September) due to the good economics of natural gas commercial vehicles, it said.
Chinese companies are on course to buy more LNG on a long-term basis than any single nation, as it is looking to sign more deals to avoid possible shortages and reduce dependence on spot deliveries. Of all global long-term liquefied natural gas volumes last year, 33 percent is going to China, according to Bloomberg.
According to Shell's LNG Outlook 2024, the global LNG market will continue to grow into the 2040s, mostly driven by China's industrial decarbonization.
The development of China's gas infrastructure has been accelerating in recent years and the long-term gas and LNG demand outlook in China remains strong as the country has been also diversifying its import destinations, it said.
"China is likely to dominate LNG demand growth this decade as its industry seeks to cut carbon emissions by switching from coal to gas," said Steve Hill, executive vice-president for Shell Energy.
#74
China stands ready to deepen cooperation with Gulf countries across the entire oil and gas industry chain, and open up new avenues for collaboration in the renewable energy sector including power batteries and photovoltaic facilities, officials and executives said on Friday.
By deepening their collaboration, both regions can reap the benefits of their complementary strengths and expertise to ensure a stable and diversified energy supply and foster sustainable development, they said at the ongoing China-GCC Countries Forum on Industrial and Investment Cooperation, which began in Xiamen, Fujian province, on Thursday.
Amid a complex and ever-changing international landscape and energy market dynamics, both China and the Gulf Cooperation Council nations face significant challenges in ensuring energy security and achieving energy transition, said Dong Xiang, deputy director-general of the National Energy Administration's international cooperation department.
Headquartered in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, the GCC is a political and economic union of six Arab states - Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates - that border the Persian Gulf. Some of these are among the world's top fossil fuel exporters.
Energy cooperation is a crucial element of the pragmatic collaboration between China and GCC nations, given the abundant energy resources in the GCC countries and China's position as a major global energy consumer, Dong said.
In 2023, China imported about 201 million metric tons of crude oil and 18 million tons of liquefied natural gas from the GCC nations, representing around one-third and one-fourth of its total imports, respectively, according to data from the administration.
Despite the volatile and uncertain nature of the global energy market in the foreseeable future, oil and gas will continue to play a crucial role as the primary sources of global energy supply, said Zhang Pinxian, deputy director of the development and planning department of China National Petroleum Corp.
In response to this scenario, the company will expand oil and gas cooperation with Gulf countries beyond exploration and development into areas such as trade, engineering technology and project construction, to enhance the resilience and security of the oil and gas supply chain, Zhang added.
So far, the company has been involved in oil and gas field development in countries such as the UAE, Qatar and Oman, with participation in six oil and gas cooperation projects.
The energy cooperation between China and nations in the Gulf region extends far beyond traditional fossil fuels. As China and the GCC states continue to prioritize green transition, both sides are exploring avenues for collaboration in renewable energy, said Yuan Feng, director of the International Cooperation Center of the National Development and Reform Commission.
As a front-runner in green energy, China has focused on perfecting its industrial and supply chain to support the advancement of renewable energy technologies. Moreover, the country's large-scale production has helped drive down the costs of renewable energy technologies, making them more accessible and affordable for countries around the world, Yuan said.
Meanwhile, the member countries of the GCC have unveiled their development strategies, with a strong focus on diversifying their economic structures and reducing overreliance on traditional energy sources.
The GCC nations are committed to embracing the development of new energy sources, including solar power, wind energy, electric vehicles and hydrogen, as they strive to achieve sustainable and resilient economies, Yuan said, stressing that China's prowess will facilitate Gulf countries toward a smooth energy transition.
Saudi Arabia, renowned for its mature energy and petrochemical industries, is actively pursuing a transition in both energy and industrial sectors. As the state embarks on this transformative journey, it aims to create lucrative investment opportunities for investors worldwide, particularly those from China, said Khalid A. Al-Falih, minister of investment, Saudi Arabia.
Huang Mingang, chief economist of China National Nuclear Corp, said that China is leveraging its comprehensive nuclear industry supply chain and technical service capabilities to provide Arab countries with integrated nuclear energy solutions and full life cycle services.
Together, they aim to explore collaborations in coupling nuclear energy with heating systems, desalination processes, petrochemical industries and complementary renewable energy sources, Huang added.
#75
ConocoPhillips, one of the largest foreign investors in China's upstream oil and gas sector, is looking to strengthen its partnership with China through low-carbon initiatives and energy supply, the company's top executive in China said.
"ConocoPhillips aims to leverage its global expertise in gas and liquefied natural gas and explore potential opportunities in China's LNG business sector, to further support LNG growth in the region and contribute to China's energy security," said Markel Hubinette, the company's China president, in an interview at the Binhai Media Center.
ConocoPhillips, one of the world's leading exploration and production companies, has been a strong partner with Tianjin and Binhai New Area over the past two decades. Its track record includes supplying more than 15 million metric tons of LNG to Tianjin from its joint venture projects, and it has been instrumental in supporting the city's energy security and carbon neutrality objectives. 
"Binhai New Area is significantly contributing to securing winter heat in northern China. It serves as a leading oil, gas and petrochemical industry hub in China and is also striving to promote the low-carbon and new energy industry development," said Hubinette, who visited the area five times from February to May.
Lian Maojun, Party chief of Binhai New Area, visited the headquarters of ConocoPhillips in Houston, Texas, and said, "Binhai New Area is envisioning deeper collaboration with the company and providing tailor-made services for its growth."
ConocoPhillips and CNOOC China Limited Tianjin Branch recently celebrated a number of significant milestones in Penglai, Shandong province, including the cumulative production of 500 million barrels of crude oil and the 1,000th cargo lifting operation. 
With a shared vision of sustainability, ConocoPhillips and CNOOC recently expanded the scope of their partnership in upstream exploration and production to include low-carbon energy development. In November they signed a memorandum of understanding during the China International Import Expo in Shanghai. It aims to enhance cooperation in low-carbon and new energy initiatives in the Bohai Area. 
"Under the MOU, we will jointly evaluate potential opportunities to reduce Penglai emissions," Hubinette said. "It's impressive to see China's commitment to dual-carbon goals and remarkable advancements in low-carbon development, which were highlighted in the government work report this year. "
With an ambition to become a net-zero company for operational emissions by 2050, ConocoPhillips seeks mutually beneficial outcomes in support of China's sustainable development," he said.
"China has made remarkable achievements in the low-carbon area. We believe that China will play a vital role in the global energy transition and climate change solutions." 
With a presence in China for more than 40 years, ConocoPhillips has benefited from the country's reform efforts and increasingly open business environment. 
Hubinette received the Haihe Friendship Award earlier this year for his significant contributions to Tianjin. He traced his deep bond with China dating to 1998, when he first visited the country to explore its cultural heritage and natural beauty.
Over the years, ConocoPhillips has invested more than 83 million yuan ($11.7 million) and undertaken philanthropic initiatives in China, including deep collaboration with TEDA International Cardiovascular Hospital to support children with congenital heart disease and facilitating overseas training for medical practitioners.
#76
China's power storage capacity is on the cusp of growth, fueled by rapid advances in the renewable energy industry, innovative technologies and ambitious government policies aimed at driving sustainable development, experts said.
The nation's energy storage capacity further expanded in the first quarter of 2024 amid efforts to advance its green energy transition, with installed new-type energy storage capacity reaching 35.3 gigawatts by end-March, soaring 2.1 times year-on-year, according to the National Energy Administration.
The country has emerged as a powerhouse in renewable energy adoption in recent years, with a particular focus on bolstering its energy storage capabilities.
The skyrocketing demand for energy storage solutions, driven by the need to integrate intermittent renewable energy sources such as wind and solar into the power grid effectively, has led to a flurry of investments in energy storage projects across the country, the NEA said.
New energy storage, or energy storage using new technologies such as lithium-ion batteries, liquid flow batteries, compressed air and mechanical energy, is an important foundation for building a new power system in China, enjoying the advantages of quick response, flexible configuration and short construction periods.
The Chinese government's proactive stance on promoting clean energy has also played a pivotal role in driving this boom, said the administration, with initiatives such as subsidies for renewable energy projects and incentives for energy storage deployment having created a conducive environment for the rapid growth of the energy storage sector.
The industry predicts this momentum to continue, with China expected to dominate the global energy storage market in the coming years.
With a strong emphasis on technological innovation and sustainable development, China's new energy storage sector is not only meeting the demand for domestic energy, but also setting the stage for a greener and more resilient global energy landscape, said Lyu Pan, deputy head of the Research Institute of Economics and Technology under the State Grid Xinjiang Electric Power Co.
It is estimated that the electricity shortfall in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region will exceed 8 million kilowatts by 2030, making new energy storage a necessity to support the operation of the power grid with advantages such as a faster response speed, high regulation accuracy, flexible deployment, and short construction cycle, he said.
According to the NEA, the northwestern parts of the country have seen the fastest development of new-type energy storage facilities, with 10.3 GW of such capacity having been installed and put into operation by the end of March.
By the end of 2023, Northwest China had installed 222 GW of wind and solar capacity, and over 10 GW of battery storage projects. This accounts for 29.2 percent of the country's total, said Bian Guangqi, an NEA official.
Important step
Developing energy storage is an important step in China's transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy, while mitigating the effect of new energy's randomness, volatility and intermittence on the grid and managing power supply and demand, he said.
With the commissioning of numerous gigawatt-scale renewable base projects in Northwest China, the local grid system needs to integrate renewable capacity, optimize power output and address intermittency issues brought on by wind and solar energy, said Deng Simeng, a senior analyst in renewables and power research at global consultancy Rystad Energy.
China's installed power generation capacity surged 14.5 percent year-on-year to 2.99 billion kW by the end of March, with that of solar power soaring 55 percent year-on-year to 660 million kW and wind power rising 21.5 percent year-on-year to about 460 million kW, according to the NEA.
"Battery storage, which entails smaller devices, flexible sites, and shorter construction periods compared to wind, solar and other conventional power sources, is gathering significant attention for its pivotal role and benefits," she said.
"This is especially significant as China has been developing solar and wind power on a large scale, amid efforts to boost renewable power consumption while ensuring stable operation of the electric grid system."
Major power generation enterprises nationwide have also stepped up investment in power projects since the beginning of this year, investing 136.5 billion yuan ($18.84 billion) during the first three months, up 7.7 percent year-on-year, while that of power grid projects amounted to 76.6 billion yuan, up 14.7 percent year-on-year, said the administration.
Zhongchu Guoneng (Beijing) Technology Co Ltd and the Institute of Engineering Thermophysics under the Chinese Academy of Sciences have jointly developed the world's largest compressed air energy storage, which achieved its first grid connection and power generation in China's Shandong province in May.
With a total investment of 1.496 billion yuan, the 300 MW power station is believed to be the largest compressed air energy storage power station in the world, with the highest efficiency and lowest unit cost as well.
Capable of continuous discharge for six hours and generating approximately 600 million kWh per year, the power station will provide power support for about 200,000 to 300,000 households during peak electricity hours.
According to Deng, in terms of its application, battery storage, with advantages of peak shaving, frequency regulation, fast response, and flexible dispatch, not only assists wind and solar farms on the generation side, but also supports grid-side and user-side operations.
Given the rapid pace of renewable installations, accelerating the development of new-type energy storage will be a key breakthrough for the northwestern region to mitigate renewable curtailment and enable a more resilient and secure power grid, she said.
China aims to further develop its new energy storage capacity, which is expected to advance from the initial stage of commercialization to large-scale development by 2025, with an installed capacity of more than 30 million kW, and realize full market-oriented development of new energy storage by 2030, according to the National Development and Reform Commission.
Provinces nationwide, in response, are stepping up efforts to construct energy storage facilities to better consume the green but volatile green energy and maintain grid stability.
Qinghai province, for example, requires that 10 percent of the wind power projects developed should be supported by the construction of electric storage devices.
Low utilization
However, the issue of low utilization of some new types of energy storage still exists.
According to Shu Yinbiao, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering, the utilization rate of new energy storage in China is not high, with the average utilization rate indexes for grid-side, user-side, and mandatory allocation of new energy storage projects reaching 38 percent, 65 percent and 17 percent, respectively.
Grid-side energy storage is distributed at critical points in the power grid, providing various services such as peak shaving and frequency regulation. User-side energy storage refers to storage systems installed on the user side, such as households, businesses, and factories, enhancing the flexible regulation capacity of load-side users.
Huang Hui, director of the energy transition project at Natural Resources Defense Council, a global environmental protection organization, said renewable energy's fluctuations have not been reflected in the market in terms of electricity supply-demand dynamics and price changes due to the limited scale of new energy entering the market.
This leads to relatively poor economic feasibility as much of the renewable energy is allocated but not consumed, he said.
The NEA issued a notice in April titled "Promotion of New Energy Storage Integration and Dispatch Utilization," aimed at standardizing the integration of new energy storage into the grid and promoting efficient dispatch utilization of new energy storage.
The notice outlined specific requirements for grid enterprises, power dispatch agencies, and new energy storage project units.
According to NEA's Bian, the government has released a list of 56 new-type energy storage pilot demonstration projects since the beginning of this year, including 17 lithium-ion battery projects and 11 compressed air energy storage projects, among others. Some of these projects have been connected to the grid, effectively promoting the application of new technologies.
The NEA will continue to encourage technological innovation to support the development of the new-type energy system, Bian added.
#77
Chinese solar companies are capable of mitigating risks while maintaining their competitive edge in the international market amid an ongoing trade dispute, as they have been stepping up efforts to diversify their global operations in recent years, experts and business insiders said.
A recent decision by the United States to impose additional tariffs on Chinese solar cells, which is based more on political posturing than on economic issues, will have limited impact, as Chinese solar companies have significantly diversified their export market, establishing strong trade relationships with countries across Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America, an executive of a domestic solar company said.
While trade frictions are inevitable with varying development conditions across different regions and countries, Risen Energy has been expanding its production capacities abroad, bolstering its resilience against global market fluctuations while enhancing global competitiveness, said Leon Chuang, global marketing director of the photovoltaic manufacturer.
"Risen Energy places greater importance on the developmental significance brought about by globalization, setting up production facilities in other countries to circumvent US tariffs," he said.
By expanding its business across the globe, Risen Energy has been enhancing its international competitiveness. The first phase of the company's battery component project in Malaysia was successfully put into operation recently, while the company's solar panels are also exported to Mexico, Australia, Chile and Brazil.
Trina Solar Co Ltd, a Chinese solar panel giant, has also been actively advancing its globalization strategy to not only enhance its competitiveness overseas but also strengthen its ability to reduce risks abroad.
While companies cannot control the risks associated with foreign trade policies, those with comprehensive globalization strategies and local operational capabilities will always maintain a leading position in the same policy environment, it said.
An analyst said the diversification strategies of these companies underscore a broader trend among Chinese solar manufacturers, which are navigating the complexities of globalization to secure their positions in an increasingly competitive and volatile market.
The recent focus by the United States and Europe on the risks to other economies from China's alleged excess capacity is misguided and the criticism understates innovation by Chinese companies in key industries and overstates the importance of State support in driving their growth, said Lin Boqiang, the head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
The US is not a major export destination for Chinese solar products, and China has already begun to diversify its export markets, he said.
Last year, China's exports of photovoltaic cells and modules to the US amounted to $3.35 million and $13.15 million, respectively. These two major solar products accounted for just 0.1 percent and 0.03 percent of China's total export of photovoltaic products, respectively, according to the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products.
The criticism reflects their concern that China's PV industry will soon dominate the global market, which sees significant advantage in technology, prices and services, thanks to years of large-scale development and technological iterations, said Lin.
According to Liu Yiyang, deputy secretary-general of the China Photovoltaic Industry Association, the diversified development of China's photovoltaic industry in the global industrial chain can help domestic solar companies better effectively cope with risks.
In the context of a global energy transition that boosts strong demand for solar products, China's photovoltaic products, with a strong price advantage, remains competitive on the global stage, he said.
According to Liu, the US market adds about 40 GW of new installed capacity every year, accounting for only less than 10 percent of the total global market, and the increased concerns over China's advancing solar capacity is due to the rapid growth of China's solar industry.
The advancement of China's solar sector is crucial for ensuring a stable supply of solar products to combat climate change globally, making solar power one of the most cost-effective energy sources for many countries and regions worldwide, he said.
#78
The US decision to increase tariffs on Chinese products will inevitably boomerang, and will never be able to impede China's ongoing green transformation and industrial upgrading, according to experts.
On top of existing tariffs under Section 301, the United States on Tuesday announced new tariffs on a variety of imports from China, including electric vehicles (EVs), lithium batteries, photovoltaic cells, critical minerals, semiconductors, steel and aluminum.
The additional levy will cause tariffs on Chinese EV imports to rise to 100 percent this year. The tariff rate will rise to 50 percent on solar cell imports this year. Meanwhile, tariffs on certain Chinese steel and aluminum products will climb to 25 percent this year, and semiconductor tariffs will shoot up to 50 percent by 2025.
Calling the US move "a clear example of political manipulation," a spokesperson for the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) stated that the United States has politicized trade issues and used them as a tool.
The US tariff hike goes against the consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and the promises of US President Joe Biden, and will seriously affect the atmosphere of bilateral cooperation, according to the MOC statement.
The Section 301 investigation, originating from the Cold War era, is infamous in international trade history. In September 2020, a WTO panel ruled that the Section 301 tariffs violated WTO rules.
"US politicians are using trade bullying policies as presidential campaign bids with an attempt to secure support from some labor unions," said Mei Xinyu, a researcher with the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation under the MOC.
Besides political pandering, the hidden motive of the US tariff hike could also include hitting China's new energy industry, said Qu Fengjie, a researcher with the Academy of Macroeconomic Research under the National Development and Reform Commission.
"The US felt uneasy about China's rapid development of new energy vehicles (NEVs), so it granted itself an unfair advantage in the market competition by curbing and suppressing China's emerging industries, driven by a fear that American products might not be able to maintain the position at the top of the value chain in international trade," Qu said.
However, experts believe that the United States will not benefit from the additional tariffs at all and the move is self-detrimental in the long run.
"The additional tariffs will drive up commodity prices in the United States, which will end up dampening consumer spending and exacerbating inflations," Zhang Jun, chief economist with China Galaxy Securities, told Xinhua.
Supply chains and regular factory operations will face disruption due to increased costs, necessitating adjustments to keep operational and production costs in check, according to Zhang.
Moreover, experts have warned that the US tariff actions could undermine its own climate efforts as well as those of the world at large.
Chinese new energy products are highly popular in the global market, perfectly meeting the urgent demand of many countries transitioning toward green energy and helping stabilize the global industrial and supply chains, Zhang Jun said.
Each NEV is estimated to cut carbon emissions by approximately 1.66 tons annually. In 2023, China exported 1.2 million NEVs, which could reduce annual carbon emissions by around 2 million tons, MOC data showed.
These additional tariffs will undermine the shift toward electrification of the global auto industry and the development of low-carbon technologies, Zhang noted.
In light of groundless accusations from the United States against China, experts believe that China should unswervingly deepen its ongoing green transformation and industrial upgrading to play a more important role in driving global low-carbon energy transition.
"Protectionism is not a recipe for success. I am confident that relevant Chinese companies are resilient enough to ward off the impacts of the tariff hike while improving their industrial efficiency," Mei Xinyu said.
#79
China's initiatives in advancing photovoltaic imports and exports, along with green technology transfers, have been instrumental in driving the transition toward a more environmentally friendly world, said a solar power company executive.
With persistent emphasis on technological innovation, China has fostered a robust and competitive solar power market, facilitating rapid growth of the new energy industry at home and abroad, said Li Xiande, chairman of JinkoSolar Holding Co Ltd, the world's largest solar panel producer by shipments.
The global new energy industry is currently experiencing a scarcity of high-quality production capacity, rather than "overcapacity", Li said in response to recent claims that China's new energy sector has overcapacity, causing global price distortions.
"The high-quality production capacity is never enough, while the low-quality production capacity is always in surplus," he said.
"With prices and sales of goods determined by global market forces in the era of economic globalization, the theory (of overcapacity) is unfounded with no substantial evidence."
Li added that China's success in green transition is partly due to continuous efforts in technological innovation. JinkoSolar, as a major photovoltaic firm in China as well as on the global stage, has also been stepping up investment in research and development to ensure a robust and competitive market environment for the rapid growth of the new energy sector.
JinkoSolar announced in March the launch of the first of its "Neo Green" modules to be produced with renewable energy. The N-type TOPCon Tiger Neo panels are produced at factories certified as "zero carbon", making it the first company in the industry with factories classified as such for ingot manufacturing, wafer cutting and cell and module manufacturing.
An analyst said China has been providing more choices to the global market and giving everyone equal opportunities to use green energy during the process of promoting the development of green energy worldwide.
"China's sufficient production capacity has helped other countries and regions around the world reduce their burden, in terms of production costs and technological development," said Ma Yinqiong, a senior analyst covering materials supply chains with global consultancy Rystad Energy.
While cost is the biggest bottleneck, especially for underdeveloped regions, China's raw material products have helped them reduce costs with faster green production capacity construction, she said.
The country's large-scale and standardized industrial technology has also helped developed countries and regions accelerate the process of greening, she added.
Li of JinkoSolar currently sees its cumulative shipments exceeding 250 gigawatts, with products sold in 190 countries. It has 12 production bases worldwide, three of which are overseas.
Operating on a global stage is crucial for JinkoSolar with its success hinging on globalization, as it allows for expanded market reach, diversified production bases and access to a broader talent pool, he said.
Globalization enables the scale and efficiency needed to lead in technology, innovation and distribution, allowing industry leaders to tap into various markets, meet international demand and foster sustainable growth, making it indispensable for their operations and success, he said.
In response to the growing share of renewable energy capacity and the deployment of electric vehicles, JinkoSolar believes energy storage will be a leading technology for energy transition investments over the next three years.
It has been significantly ramping up its efforts in energy storage modalities, investing heavily in the development and deployment of advanced energy storage solutions to complement its robust photovoltaic portfolio.
According to the 2023 Reuters Events Energy Transition Insights report, energy storage is going to be a leading technology for energy transition investments in the coming three years.
Energy storage will become a priority technology during the 2024-26 period. While batteries currently dominate growth in the sector, several other promising alternatives will be deployed commercially in the coming years, it said.
By integrating energy storage with its solar technologies, Jinko-Solar aims to optimize energy use and address the intermittency issues associated with solar power, making it a comprehensive provider of renewable energy solutions.
The company is exploring partnerships with leading technology firms and research institutions to drive innovation and efficiency in energy storage systems, including developing high-capacity batteries, improving storage efficiency and reducing costs, thus making energy storage more accessible and scalable.
#80
Fierce competition has driven up technological innovation and industrial upgrading in China's new energy vehicle (NEV) sector, with auto brands revving up investment and seeking cooperation.
"I'm dazzled by the new configurations of NEVs, with large touch screen, voice control, and autopilot system being almost basic features for many," said Zhou Ning, a resident in Hefei, East China's Anhui province, who is considering purchasing the family's second car.
"When there are several options of different car brands within my budget, I feel like I can really take time to choose one that caters best to my needs," he added.
As the NEVs claim an ever-growing market share and consumer recognition, Chinese automakers are going all out to improve product performance through enhanced technological input while setting attractive prices for a higher penetration rate. At the same time, authorities in China are working to provide a sound breeding ground for innovative cooperation between domestic and foreign enterprises on the NEV industrial chain.
Tech-intensive
More players are pitching into the NEV sector. China's tech giant Huawei in mid-April made an announcement for a new electric car model Luxeed S7, featuring its self-developed operating system Harmony OS. In late March, Xiaomi, another renowned Chinese tech firm, released its first self-developed NEV model SU7.
NEV makers' fast upgrades in technology has put Chinese consumers in the driver's seat, with high-tech being the supporter of sales growth.
Meanwhile, the recent years have seen closer interactions between automakers and hi-tech companies, with new technologies more frequently applied on NEVs, spurring new consumption growth.
For Xiaomi's SU7, technological breakthroughs in key fields have been achieved, such as modeling design, batteries, intelligent driving and intelligent cockpits, said Lei Jun, founder and CEO of Xiaomi at SU7's launch event.
Aito, an NEV brand jointly developed by Huawei and Chongqing-based automaker Seres, started the delivery of a six-seater sports utility vehicle (SUV) M9 in February this year, featuring a futuristic smart cockpit running on Harmony OS.
Also not long ago, GAC Group's Aion and Didi, a leading Chinese ride-hailing service provider, announced that their joint venture (JV), Guangzhou Andi Technology Co Ltd, has secured its business license. This is the first domestic JV in China between an L4 autonomous driving provider and an automotive manufacturer aiming at producing mass-market vehicles for autonomous taxi services.
Zhang Yongwei, vice-chairman and secretary-general of the China EV 100, an NEV industry think tank, said that integrating advantageous elements such as vehicles, roads, networks, computing power and data into systematic engineering is the most effective path to promote the automotive industry into the next level, which is a more intelligently connected ecosystem in China.
Boosted by multiple factors, China's auto sales rose 10.6 percent year-on-year to 6.72 million units in the first quarter of this year, data from the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers showed.
Intense competition
Last year saw a survival battle among Chinese NEV makers, after the withdrawal of financial subsidies for NEVs that had been in place for 13 years.
The racetrack has turned even more crowded this year with traditional automakers, both domestic and overseas, accelerating the electrification process, and tech companies entering the autodrome.
In February this year, BYD officially released its new NEV model priced at 79,800 yuan (about $11,238), the lowest for Chinese-made hybrid models, which presented itself as a competitive opponent for fuel cars at the same price level.
SAIC-GM-Wuling, Chang'an, and Neta also downgraded the prices of several models in the same month. Industry insiders expect that the price-reduction strategy would help further raise the penetration rate of NEVs in China, which was logged at nearly 30 percent in 2023.
In a bid to boost consumption and trade-in of automobiles, China has released a plan to relax the loan ratios for personal gasoline cars and NEVs.
Wang Qing, vice-director of the institute of market economy under the Development Research Center of the State Council, said that the NEV market is expected to continue its relatively rapid growth this year.
"I believe that by 2025, the market share of NEVs will be close to or even exceed 50 percent. And more consumers will opt for NEVs rather than fossil-fuelled cars," Wang said.
In the past year, except for bulking up in R&D and cutting prices, many Chinese NEV brands invested more in foreign markets for new growth points.
Taking Southeast Asia's largest economy Indonesia as an example, China's SAIC-GM-Wuling, Chery, Neta, and BYD have already sold electric cars and buses there, with some of them planning on building local car-making factories.
A study by the Association of Indonesia Automotive Industries revealed that 66 percent of Indonesian consumers showed positive views toward Chinese car brands.
China's NEVs captured a 62-percent share of the global NEV market in the first two months of this year, according to Cui Dongshu, secretary general of the China Passenger Car Association.
Big cake for all
Amid the global electrification wave, the NEV industrial chain is also turning to be more inter-related and inclusive. China's supportive policies to encourage the development and innovation of the NEV industry have unleashed more market potential and attracted more international investment.
To increase its pace of innovation in China, Volkswagen Group China in April announced that it will invest 2.5 billion euros in the expansion of its innovation hub in Hefei.
"This additional investment in the site underlines our ambition to quickly expand our local innovative strength," Chairman and CEO of Volkswagen Group China Ralf Brandstätter said, adding that the hub in Hefei will bring technologies to market approximately 30 percent faster in the future.
Japanese tech firm Panasonic also plans to increase investment in South China's Guangdong province, focusing on NEV components and intelligent manufacturing, said Zhao Bingdi, president of Panasonic China.
"We have firsthand experience of the business environment in Guangzhou. Guangzhou is of utmost importance to Panasonic's future business endeavors," Zhao added.
In March this year, a new JV set up by Mercedes-Benz Group China Ltd and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd was registered in Beijing to support the operation of their supercharging network in the Chinese market.
By the end of 2026, the new JV would have set up at least 1,000 supercharging stations equipped with cutting-edge technologies across China, with some 7,000 high-power charging piles.
From car manufacturing to infrastructure, China has sent positive signals, welcoming various industry players to tap the market potentials together, and help build a more robust e-mobility ecosystem.
Huang Zilan, research associate at the Qianhai Institute for International Affairs of Chinese University of Hong Kong (Shenzhen), said China's efforts to develop green and low-carbon growth drivers are yielding significant results amid the global energy transition.
"It's not just about showcasing the powerful influence of 'Made in China', but also about gaining international recognition for the positive role China plays in promoting the global green economy," said Huang.
#81
At the recently concluded 16th China International Battery Fair (CIBF 2024), a series of new semi-solid batteries were unveiled to the public for the first time, marking a significant breakthrough in the sector.
Shenzhen-based BAK Power Battery Co Ltd, the developer of the semi-solid batteries, said its products not only excel in terms of capacity, size, cycle life and safety, but also possess broad application prospects.
The BAK Battery said the batteries on display all incorporate both polymer and oxide, with an energy density of more than 350 Wh/kg and an electrolyte proportion of ten percent or less.
Among the new products, the 30 Ah batteries were specially designed for electric motorcycles and offer 3C charge/discharge rates, while the 60Ah and 100Ah electric vehicle batteries can maintain over 80 percent of capacity even after 1,500 weeks of cyclic use.
Devoted to the solid-state battery industry, BAK Battery said its first-generation semi-solid batteries are already in mass production and have significantly contributed to the safety of digital devices, while the new products showcased at the CIBF 2024 are expected to be mass-produced in the next three to four years.
In addition, the company said it will continue to increase investment in battery research and development. Efforts will be made to develop products targeting emerging sectors such as commercial and consumer drones, two-wheelers, and energy storage, thereby further promoting China's energy transition and sustainable development.
liuzizheng@chinadaily.com.cn
#82
Suez Group, a global environmental solutions provider based in France, announced a strategic partnership with China's Envision Energy to establish a Net-Zero Battery Industrial Park in France in order to create a sustainable electric vehicle and battery energy storage industry in the country while driving energy transition in Europe.
The industrial park, which will provide a wide range of components related to renewable energy supply, battery recycling and digital denationalization platforms, will help localize the battery sector and make France the central battery recycling hub for the continent, it said.
"The partnership underlines our strong commitment to supporting the ecological transition and the drive toward a circular economy in both countries," said Sabrina Soussan, chairwoman and CEO of Suez.
Lei Zhang, founder and CEO of Envision, said the strategic partnership will further extend the company's battery technology to recycling, leveraging its renewable energy system solutions and decarbonization platforms.
An analyst said Sino-French energy ties are to be further upgraded with China's ambitious targets for carbon neutrality and France's expertise in renewable energy.
Bilateral energy cooperation has gained momentum in recent years, spanning areas such as electric vehicle battery recycling and renewable energy investment, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
The ever-deepening cooperation underscores the shared commitment to address global energy challenges while paving the way for a low-carbon future, Luo said.
Suez inked the cooperation deal during a state visit by the Chinese President to France this week, in addition to two other partnerships with Chinese companies - Chongqing Sanfeng Environment and Dongguan Water Group that focus on transforming waste into local and sustainable energy and pioneering EV battery recycling - key steps in the energy transition of both China and France.
Soussan said Suez expects revenue from the Chinese market to continue growing during the 2023-27 period, as China's top policymakers have assured greater efforts to attract foreign capital, widen market access and promote further opening up of modern service sector industries.
#83
Efforts by certain countries to adopt the pretext of "overcapacity" to implement trade protectionism pose a significant threat to global trade and economic growth, according to China's top economic regulator.
In an article published on its official WeChat account on Friday, the National Development and Reform Commission said that China's exports of electric vehicles, lithium batteries, photovoltaic products and other items enrich the global supply chain and alleviate global inflationary pressure, making notable contributions to efforts worldwide in addressing climate change and promoting green transition.
For some time now, officials and media in some countries have been accusing China of "overcapacity" related to its new energy products, laying the groundwork for unilateralism and the enforcement of protectionist policies, said the article.
However, when examined from the perspective of the international division of labor, global supply and demand, and tried-and-true market principles, the alleged "overcapacity" in China's new energy sector appears to be nothing more than a meticulously constructed ploy by some countries, it said.
The NDRC stressed this strategy aims to justify imposing trade protection measures. The consequences of such actions not only fail to benefit the accusing parties themselves, but also disrupt the stability and efficiency of global industrial and supply chains. They inflict damage on global economic and trade growth while impeding progress toward green transformation worldwide.
Experts said that enforcing protectionist measures under the pretext of addressing alleged "overcapacity" restricts market competition and shields outdated production capabilities. This threatens global industrial progress.
Countries such as the United States are intensifying limitations on China's exports of high-quality goods under the banner of "overcapacity". This approach serves as a safeguard for their own outdated production capabilities, achieved through non-market methods, said Li Wei, a researcher specializing in industrial economy at the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences.
The high market share of Chinese new energy vehicles in the European market is also partly attributable to US and European companies manufacturing vehicles in China, said Ji Xuehong, a professor at the School of Economics and Management at Beijing-based North China University of Technology.
Ji said that their overseas expansion benefits from China's well-developed supply chain and the business decisions of their headquarters. This does not point to a scenario in which Chinese automakers monopolize the European market.
The price advantage of Chinese new energy vehicles does not only not distort the market, but also provides a practical solution for Europe to achieve its energy transition goals, he added.
China's auto sales rose 10.6 percent year-on-year to 6.72 million units in the first quarter, said the Beijing-based China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.
In the meantime, the country's auto exports rose 33.2 percent year-on-year to over 1.32 million units.
Dismissing the "China overcapacity" narrative, David Slump, president and CEO of Marelli Holdings Co Ltd - an Italian-Japanese mobility product supplier to the automotive industry - said that China, recognized globally as a major EV market and home to some of the world's leading EV manufacturers, will create substantial opportunities for global companies aiming to sustain robust growth in this burgeoning sector.
Eager to cut carbon emissions, many countries are building infrastructure such as charging facilities, battery swap stations and capable grid systems to facilitate their consumers driving EVs on the road, said Slump.
To stay competitive, Marelli will soon expand its engineering team in China from 800 to 1,000 to meet surging demand for innovation.
As China embarks on a new phase of growth focused on sustainability and innovation, he said the group will deploy more resources to develop greener and artificial intelligence-related products for the Chinese market in the coming years.
#84
Recently, the United States and some European countries have been hyping up the false narrative of China's "overcapacity", accusing the country of "flooding" the global market with cheap new energy products. Nonetheless, the so-called China's "overcapacity" is not something new. Why do they keep repeating the old rhetoric? What are their hidden motives?
Aiming to hit china's new energy industry
The "overcapacity" accusation overlooks market demand, as well as the strong potential of the global new energy industry. It runs counter to law of economics and international trade rules.
Blaming China for "overcapacity" is not new.
Over 20 years ago, shortly after China's accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO), China's export of high-quality products at more affordable prices was deemed by some as threats, said Zheng Yongnian, director of the Advanced Institute of Global and Contemporary China Studies of the Chinese University of Hong Kong (Shenzhen).
The so-called China's "overcapacity" is in fact a new variant of "China threat" theory, which turns economic and trade issues into political, security or ideological issues, said Zheng.
Fearing that its products can not maintain the position at the top of the value chain in international trade, the US intends to give itself an unfair advantage in market competition by curbing and suppressing China's emerging industries, said John Ross, former director of economic and business policy for the mayor of London.
Therefore, the "overcapacity" accusation is, in essence, a new narrative to attack China, It's another example of US economic coercion and bullying.
Customary practice to maintain hegemony
Looking back at history, any country that was labeled as "harming" the US industrial interest, had been suppressed by the US in various ways.
Since the middle of the last century, Japan's textile, automobile, and semiconductor industries have expanded, but the US has conducted crackdowns on Japan's related industries, by adopting anti-dumping tariffs, forcing Japan to voluntarily restrict exports and expand imports, among others, said Jin Ruiting, researcher at the Institute of Macroeconomic Research of the National Development and Reform Commission.
Today, the US is playing the same old trick again -- using trade protectionism to alleviate its "hegemony anxiety". This lose-lose approach will not solve its own problems, and it will have a negative impact on the development of the global clean energy industry chain.
Political pandering
The US will hold a presidential election this year. The Joe Biden administration's continuous hype around China's "overcapacity" could be seen as an attempt to secure support from the labor unions.
Statistics indicate that eight of the top ten lithium-ion battery manufacturers in the US, eight of the top 12 photovoltaic companies, and two of the top three NEV manufacturers are situated in states won by US President Biden in the last election.
These companies are affiliated with prominent unions, including the United Auto Workers and the Laborers' International Union of North America, all of which have endorsed Biden's reelection bid. Consequently, garnering support from both the public and key industries in these states is crucial for the success of Biden's electoral campaign.
The Office of the United States Trade Representative recently initiated a Section 301 investigation into China's maritime, logistics and shipbuilding industries following a petition from labor unions, alleging that China utilized "unfair, non-market policies and practices" to gain dominance in these sectors. As the US presidential election draws near, it is no surprise that the US blamed China for its own industrial problems.
Although the US government asserts that its trade policy is "worker-centered", its recent moves, including hyping up China's "overcapacity" and launching trade investigations against China, appear to prioritize voter appeal over economic considerations, said Yao Yang, director of the China Center for Economic Research at Peking University.
Deepening reform and opening up
Facing these groundless accusations from the West, China should unswervingly deepen reform and opening up, experts said.
At present, China has built the world's largest, most complete and most competitive clean energy industrial chain. It has also helped stabilize the global industrial and supply chain, enriching global supply and easing global inflationary pressure.
China's electric vehicles, lithium batteries and photovoltaic products, not only meet the growing global demand for green consumption, but also assist many countries in green energy transition, said Li Dawei, director of the Emerging Economies Research Office of the Institute of Foreign Economic Studies of the China Academy of Macroeconomic Research.
The "overcapacity" fallacy can not impede the ongoing transformation and upgrading of China's industries. China's new energy products will play an important role in driving global low-carbon energy transition.
#84
Some Western politicians allege that China's new energy products impact global economy. However, facts and figures prove such a narrative groundless and false.
China's export of new energy products has contributed much to global economic expansion and price equilibrium. China's pivotal role in driving energy transitions, fostering economic growth, and enhancing livelihoods globally cannot be overstated.
Against a backdrop of sluggish global growth and heightened inflationary pressures in recent years, Chinese products have stood out for their hallmark attributes of quality, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness. This has translated into tangible support for stabilizing global industrial and supply chains, effectively bolstering the availability of goods worldwide and mitigating inflationary strains.
Despite the competitive pricing of China's new energy exports, they fall within acceptable trade parameters and do not meet the technical definition of dumping. As exports increase, the prices of China's new energy vehicles also increase. Li Dawei, a researcher at the Academy of Macroeconomic Research, emphasized that these products maintain prices aligned with their inherent value, underscoring China's adherence to fair trade practices.
China's reach in the wind power and photovoltaic markets extends across more than 200 countries and regions, significantly driving down the global cost of clean energy adoption. Furthermore, collaborative endeavors in green energy ventures with over 100 nations have facilitated greater accessibility and affordability of local electricity supply.
China's advanced capacity contributes a lot to the world's economic development, greatly enriches the global supply and provides diverse choices for consumers.
#85
China has been stepping up construction of new energy storage in recent years to build a new power system in the country amid its green energy transition, said authority.
By the end of the first quarter of 2024, the cumulative installed capacity of new energy storage projects in China has reached 35.3 million kW / 77.68 million KWH, an increase of more than 12 percent compared with that at the end of 2023 and an increase of more than 210 percent compared with that at the end of the first quarter of 2023, the National Energy Administration said during a press conference held in Beijing on Monday.
New energy storage, or energy storage using new technologies, such as lithium-ion batteries, liquid flow batteries, compressed air and mechanical energy, is an important foundation for building a new power system in China, enjoying the advantages of a fast response, flexible configuration and short construction periods.
In terms of installed capacity, new energy storage power stations are now being built in a more centralized way and large scale with longer storage duration period, said the administration.
The northwestern regions of the country, rich in solar and wind energy resources, has become the fastest region in developing new energy storage in the country, with 10.3 million kilowatts of new energy storage installed capacity put into operation so far, accounting for 29.2 percent of the country's total, it said.
According the to the administration, energy consumption continues to grow during the first three months this year, with China's total electricity consumption meanwhile reaching 2.3 trillion KWH, up 9.8 percent year-on-year.
Industry is the main force driving the growth of energy use. The consumption of coal and natural gas increased steadily, and the consumption of gasoline and kerosene increased rapidly, it said.
Since the beginning of this year, electricity consumption has continued to grow rapidly, it is expected that during the summer of this year, the national electricity load will also grow rapidly, putting pressure upon the country's power supply in case of extreme and disastrous weather, it said.
The administration vows to ensure power supply during peak hours while stepping up monitoring to ensure steady power supply, it said.
#86
CATL's new battery that offers a 1,000-km range and supports ultra-fast charging, displays at the 2024 Beijing International Automotive Exhibition in Beijing, on April 27. [Photo/VCG]
BEIJING - The 2024 Beijing International Automotive Exhibition, an A-list event continuing through May 4, is showcasing an unprecedented number of new energy vehicles (NEVs), with 278 distinct NEV models on display, reflecting the growing dominance of NEVs in the auto industry.
CATL, a leading battery manufacturer, launched a new battery at the prestigious auto show, featuring a world-first innovation that offers a 1,000-km range and supports ultra-fast charging.
This breakthrough allows for a 600-km range in just 10 minutes of charging, achieving a recharge rate of "1 kilometer per second."
A CATL spokesperson said that while the world is turning climate consensus into action, many obstacles remain. Technological inequality persists, and some countries are slowing the pace of the green energy transition, which creates challenges in advancing a sustainable future for the world.
"Today, we need to unite as never before to tackle these pressing challenges, and I believe an open approach to innovation is the solution," the spokesperson told Xinhua.
In China, the new energy passenger car retail penetration rate exceeded 50 percent for the first time in the first half of April, indicating that one out of every two cars sold is a new energy vehicle. This milestone is particularly significant, considering China's ambitious goal set in 2020 to exceed a 50 percent NEV penetration rate by 2035, which seemed distant at the time when the penetration rate was only 5.8 percent.
As sustainable development deepens, the global demand for new energy products, services, and technologies has grown significantly, according to a new KPMG report on Chinese new energy enterprises "going global."
China plays a crucial role in promoting global green and low-carbon development. Its new energy industry has not only achieved remarkable success in the domestic market but is also actively expanding into the international market, enhancing the energy industry's level of internationalization, as noted in the report.
"This contributes Chinese wisdom and solutions to the realization of global green development goals."
Riding China's tailwinds
Timur Gul, chief energy technology officer of the International Energy Agency (IEA), said carbon dioxide emissions from the transportation sector account for over one-fifth of the global total emissions and are a major source of pollution in urban areas.
The good news is that even under the current policy environment, oil consumption in the transportation sector will reach its peak within this decade, and the key driver of this transition is the electrification of road transport, according to Gul.
He stated that the robust growth of the electric vehicle (EV) market is pivotal for reaching global climate objectives. He highlighted that for governments worldwide, the EV market presents escalating opportunities. These extend beyond climate improvement and air pollution reduction to encompass economic growth and the fulfillment of industrial targets.
Aion, an EV brand under China's Guangzhou Automobile Group (GAC), has become one of the fastest-growing automotive brands globally. This success is attributed to its comprehensive in-house research and development in the domains of EVs and intelligent connected vehicles (ICVs).
GAC Aion General Manager Gu Huinan emphasized the company's commitment to bringing high-quality, intelligent and valuable products to the local markets and driving local automotive industry development.
In 2022, Aion's smart eco-factory achieved zero carbon emissions and was honored as the Global Lighthouse Network's (GLN) sole NEV manufacturer member in December 2023.
The GLN was formed when the World Economic Forum (WEF) teamed up with McKinsey & Company in 2018 to identify the most innovative leaders in manufacturing. The WEF introduces the GLN as a globally recognized community transforming factory and value chain operations with Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies, with each member indisputably a leader in its respective industry.
Gu told Xinhua that Aion's global leadership in intelligence and digitalization can serve as a model for local manufacturing.
The robust tailwinds created by China's NEV industry are not only propelling domestic growth but also turbo-charging innovation and opportunity across the global automotive landscape.
David Slump, President and CEO of Marelli, a leading global automotive supplier, highlighted the importance of "China speed" for innovation.
"If you look at our order book, about 25 percent of orders are from China," he told Xinhua at the auto show. "That tells me that we'll be growing faster in China than elsewhere, and that's super important. And it's because of the speed and the innovation in China."
With 5,000 employees in China, including 800 engineers, Marelli looks forward to expanding its R&D presence in this competitive market.
"What are we focused on? Speed. China speed. That's super important for innovation," Slump confirmed Marelli's long-term commitment to China. "We asked ourselves, what's the 'next China'? And the answer is China."
#87
Contemporary Amperex Technology Co Ltd, the world's largest vehicle battery maker, unveiled its upgraded fast-charging, super-long range electric vehicle battery at the 2024 Beijing International Automotive Exhibition on Thursday.
The lithium iron phosphate battery (LFP), Shenxing Plus, is able to power a journey of 600 kilometers after a mere 10-minute charge. LFP batteries are environmentally friendlier and cheaper than the lithium-ion batteries more commonly used in EVs.
Gao Huan, chief technology officer of CATL's e-car business, said the upgraded battery is able to power 1,000 km on a full charge, which means a trip from Beijing to Nanjing, Jiangsu province, is possible without recharging on the road.
The move comes just months after the company launched its fast-charging battery able to deliver a driving range of 400 km with a 10-minute charge in August.
Gao said: "Through breakthroughs in materials and structure, the battery's energy density surpasses the 200 watt hours per kilogram threshold for the first time, reaching 205 Wh/kg. Such a latest generation of battery has already been used in four car models, and will be equipped for more than 50 types of vehicles by the end of this year."
CATL also announced on Thursday it would build the largest superfast charging service platform in China, by collaborating with industry-leading partners like Star Charge, YKC and Shudao New Energy, to offer cost-effective mobility experience for more users.
It also pledged to launch the industry's first superfast charging vehicle owners club with over 600 service outlets covering 31 provincial-level regions to provide users with roadside rescues, battery inspections and maintenance, and other services.
Lin Boqiang, director of the China Center for Energy Economics Research at Xiamen University, said in a separate interview that China's momentum in the clean energy sector and the entire industry chains for new energy vehicles, photovoltaics and wind power, have offered "practical, cost-effective and mutually beneficial solutions" for global green transformation.
Regarding accusations by some Western countries that China has so-called overcapacity problems, Lin said that such talk will only have a negative impact on the world's green energy transition.
"China's clean energy technologies are as advanced as those of developed countries, and practical cooperation between China and other countries will boost technological advances," Lin added.
#88
China's carbon neutrality plan is significant for building a green future, and will lay a solid foundation for the success of multinational energy companies in the country, a top executive said.
"As China intensifies its exploration in energy transition, our cooperation with Chinese partners continues to deepen, expanding from the local market to the global market and extending from traditional industries to cover new energy fields," said TotalEnergies China Country Chair Yu Yongjian.
Amid China's efforts to transition toward cleaner energy sources, the company has been exploring and promoting cooperation with the country in various clean energy businesses and technologies, which include green electricity, biofuel hydrogen energy, and carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS).It also eyes further expansion locally.
China has begun to turn policies into actions, formulating dynamic and pragmatic road maps, and TotalEnergies is committed to deepening its partnerships with Chinese companies to achieve the common goal of net-zero emissions, Yu said.
As part of the company's efforts to increase its footprint to cover more of the renewables business in China, it has already developed more than 500 megawatts of rooftop solar projects in the country, through its joint venture TotalEnergies Envision Energy Services & Solutions Co, contributing to China's renewable energy capacity.
The company is also trying to engage in China's offshore wind power market, taking advantage of its experience in offshore and deep-sea operations to harness the vast potential of wind power to meet China's increasing demand for cleaner and sustainable energy, it said.
Yu said the company is looking forward to cooperating with Chinese partners to further advance the development of China's offshore wind power industry.
Multinational energy firms' burgeoning expansion within China's renewable energy sector is poised to bolster their position as key catalysts in the nation's eco-friendly evolution, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
These companies' strategic expansion further underscores the global energy sector's acknowledgment of the imperative for collective action in combating climate change, Luo said.
The company is also actively pursuing projects in onshore renewables, e-mobility, biofuels as well as hydrogen energy to support China's progressive shift toward net-zero.
In March, the company signed an agreement with China Petroleum &Chemical Corp, or Sinopec, to jointly build a production line with an annual capacity of 230,000 metric tons of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) to help the nation's aviation industry reduce its carbon footprint.
The planned unit will produce SAF and will process local waste or residues from the circular economy, including cooking oils and animal fats. TotalEnergies has set itself a target of 1.5 million tons of annual SAF production by 2030.
Ma Yongsheng, chairman of Sinopec, said the collaboration with TotalEnergies is in line with Sinopec's strategy for the development of low-carbon solutions for China and the world.
As the world's third-largest LNG player, TotalEnergies has also supplied more than 5 million tons per annum of liquefied natural gas to the country in 2023. The company will further develop its LNG business in China and contribute to China's energy transition.
According to Yu, energy storage is an indispensable technology for developing renewable energy. The company has expanded its business into various industries and plays an increasingly important role in the country.
"As one of the first international energy companies to enter China's offshore oil and gas exploration and refining business following the country's reform and opening-up policy, we have been present in China for over 40 years, actively engaged in the entire energy industry chain," said Yu.
"We are committed to continuing sharing experiences, technologies and expertise with Chinese partners to establish mutually beneficial cooperation as we jointly develop energy businesses at home and abroad."
#89
Accelerating energy transformation and innovation is crucial for achieving high-quality development in China's petroleum and chemicals industry, and refiners should embrace breakthrough initiatives to better navigate the transition, said industry insiders.
"The petrochemical industry must step up supply-side structural reforms while focusing on the large domestic market to better prepare itself against external uncertainties," said Li Shousheng, chairman of the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association.
The petroleum and chemical industry, both major consumers of energy and significant emitters of carbon dioxide, faces challenges as well as opportunities in transitioning toward green and low-carbon practices, Li said during the 2024 Petrochemical Industry Development Conference held in Beijing on Tuesday.
Enhancing innovation capability is also fundamental to optimizing product and industrial structures, especially after the sector saw revenue and profit declines last year, he said.
The petrochemical sector's annual operating income fell 20.5 percent year-on-year to 15.95 trillion yuan ($2.2 trillion) in 2023, while total profits were also down 20.5 percent year-on-year to 873.36 billion yuan, official data showed.
The industry has made significant advancements in technical innovation during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25), he said.
These include the drilling of a super-deep borehole in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region that has reached 10,000 meters, a breakthrough in the country's deep-earth exploration, as well as China's independently designed and built deep-water submarine jacket platform, the largest of its kind in Asia.
However, considerable gaps still need to be filled, Li added.
"In key areas of the national economic strategy, for example, such as high-end specialty chemicals, new environmental protection technologies, and life pharmaceutical technologies, there remains a significant disparity compared to advanced countries and the industry needs to significantly accelerate and deepen institutional reforms to bridge these gaps," he said.
The chemical industry faces structural shortages in high-end products represented by new chemical materials and high-end fine chemicals. Some key chemical markets lack competitiveness, and there is insufficient reserve of forward-looking technologies and leading products for the future, he said.
While the country's goals of achieving carbon neutrality before 2060 will exert pressure on its refinery sector, energy transition efforts will also broaden opportunities for those who capture growing demand for petrochemicals and are willing to adjust and modify their production modes, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
China's pursuit of carbon neutrality will bring numerous opportunities to refiners that are willing and prepared to evolve, Lin said.
While the carbon peak and neutrality goals might bring many refiners difficulties, it is believed several of those who succeed in seizing opportunities will thrive amid the challenges, he said.
According to the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association, focused investment also serves as a crucial growth factor for both individual enterprises and entire industries looking toward the future.
In 2022, the industry witnessed a remarkable increase in investment capacity, with total investment reaching 2.6 trillion yuan, a 14.8 percent growth compared to 2.3 trillion yuan in 2021.
Allocating capital effectively in high-end, differentiated and green chemistry domains, as well as in empowering areas such as intelligent systems, big data and frontier technologies, including investments in overseas markets participating in the Belt and Road Initiative, poses a significant challenge to the petrochemical industry's precision investment capabilities, said Li.
Fu Xiangsheng, vice-president of the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association, said a significant number of investments has been geared toward expanding scale and increasing output in the past few years, with a limited proportion of these allocated to structural optimization and high-end advancements.
The disproportionate focus on sheer scale has led to overcapacity, and reevaluation of strategies is needed to achieve a more balanced and sustainable industry landscape, he said.
#90
China Energy Investment Corp's renewable power generation capacity touched a record during the first quarter of this year, as the company accelerated its green energy transition while ensuring domestic energy security.
The company, also known as China Energy, saw a 34.7 percent year-on-year increase in newly installed capacity for new energy during the first three months, with a corresponding 23.2 percent rise in clean energy electricity generation compared to the same period last year, company spokesman Huang Qing said during a news conference in Beijing on Tuesday.
China Energy has been stepping up investments in renewable energy projects, including wind, solar and hydropower. It has launched 80 key projects nationwide with a total investment of 400 billion yuan ($55.27 billion) in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, Ningxia Hui autonomous region, and Qinghai and Hebei provinces, he said.
Chinese energy companies' increased focus on renewable power generation aligns with global efforts to combat climate change, while helping to diversify the nation's energy mix and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
Leading traditional energy companies are strategically pivoting toward cleaner and more sustainable energy sources, which is also stimulating innovation and technological advancements in the renewable energy sector while fostering economic growth, Lin said.
With a total installed capacity of 2.32 million kilowatts, Maerdang hydropower station, the highest-altitude facility of its kind on the upper reaches of the Yellow River operated by China Energy, has been connected to the grid and started operations earlier this month. It is expected to generate more than 7.3 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity each year.
The station, located 3,000 meters above sea level along the Yellow River in Qinghai province, is also the core of the company's first integrated clean energy facility in Qinghai to include hydropower, wind power, solar power and energy storage.
It will take advantage of the abundant clean energy in the western region of China while benefiting the energy-hungry eastern region, the company said.
The construction experience and technological progress achieved by the design, building and installation processes of the Maerdang hydropower station will further benefit future hydropower projects in regions such as the Xizang autonomous region, it said.
China Energy achieved a record in installed renewable energy projects last year, with power generation capacity in 2023 reaching 320 million kW, with renewable energy accounting for 35.5 percent of the total.
#91
Vietnam has huge potential in developing renewable energy as the country works to deal with air pollution through green transition, experts say.
Already, since making its global commitments to green energy, Vietnam has canceled or shelved a number of coal-fired energy generation projects, said Richard Ramsawak, a lecturer of economics at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology-University Vietnam, or RMIT University Vietnam.
"This significant number at least signals the level of intent of Vietnam's leadership in meeting these international targets," said Ramsawak, even though coal will likely remain a major source of energy in the coming years.
On April 8, Vuong Dinh Hue, chairman of the National Assembly of Vietnam, met with several leaders of Chinese companies operating in transport and energy as part of his official visit to China.
In a meeting with representatives of the China International Energy Group, Hue commended the group's effective and sustainable investment across the globe including Vietnam and welcomed its recommendation to support Vietnam in building policies and master plans for power network.
Vietnam has pledged to achieve net zero by 2050. Last year, it announced that it would not develop new coal power plants after 2030 and phase out coal usage by 2050.
The Vietnam government approved on April 1 the implementation road map of the country's eighth national power development plan, or PDP8, for 2021-30, with a vision to 2050, according to English-language daily Vietnam News.
Key power projects
The list of key power projects includes investment in thermal power, liquefied natural gas power, and renewable energy sources.
The transition to green energy is pressing as Vietnam's PM2.5 levels increased nearly 9 percent in 2023, back to pre-pandemic concentrations, according to a report by the air monitoring website IQAir in March.
Air pollution sources in Vietnam include an aging fleet of vehicles, coal power plants, industrial activities, indoor coal and biomass cooking stoves, ineffective waste management practices and agriculture, the report said, adding that climate conditions like El Nino also intensified existing air quality issues in Southeast Asia in 2023.
To realize the commitment of achieving the net-zero target by 2050, Vietnam should accelerate the green transition in energy and transport, said Nguyen Bao Huy, an expert with the research lab Control Technique and Innovation for Electric Vehicles at the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at the Hanoi University of Science and Technology in Vietnam.
"In fact we are doing that," said Huy, adding that, according to the PDP8, the installed renewable energy resources in Vietnam will account for 30-39 percent of the country's energy mix by 2030 and up to 71 percent by 2050.
Noting the internal combustion engines of vehicles are one of the biggest pollution emission sources, Huy said transportation electrification should be a solution.
"The Vietnamese government is also active in preparing for this energy transition in transportation," said Huy, who has recently been in a research team coordinated by the United Nations Development Programme Vietnam to carry out a consultant study for the Vietnamese government on planning infrastructure for electric vehicles charging on expressways.
Also, "there is a window of opportunity here for Vietnam to maintain its position as a manufacturing center for Southeast Asia built on manufacturing powered by renewable energy," said Ramsawak.
#92
China is developing virtual power plants to achieve energy savings and promote the transition to greener energy.
These virtual facilities act as "invisible" power facilities, bringing together various electricity users, distributed power sources, and energy storage providers through coordination to ensure a balance between power generation and consumption.
For wind and solar power generation, factors like the presence or absence of wind, varying wind speeds, and the intensity of sunlight all affect the amount of electricity generated, said Cong Zhipeng, deputy head of the power dispatch control center of the Yantai branch of the State Grid Corporation of China in East China's Shandong province.
The intermittent, random, and fluctuating nature of these factors makes it more challenging to regulate the power system, Cong added.
With the rapid advancement of China's new energy infrastructure, the proportion of installed capacity from renewable sources is steadily increasing, which also highlights the challenges related to balance and security within the electrical grid system.
By fully leveraging the regulatory potential of virtual power plants, the costs of operation are significantly reduced.
In a smart control platform for virtual power plants launched in August last year in Yantai, a large screen displays real-time monitoring of resource access, electricity load, and power trading data.
The 242,000-kilowatt capacity adjustable load resource pool, built by the Dongfang Electronics Co Ltd, has achieved interconnection with both State Grid Shandong Electric Power Company and the State Grid's Yantai branch, said Dong Wenjie, head of the comprehensive energy business department of Dongfang Electronics Co Ltd.
As resources from various regions continue to be integrated, the orderly establishment of a 500,000-kilowatt adjustable load resource pool will be realized, Dong said.
According to a document released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration in March, it is necessary to define market access, clearing, and settlement standards for distributed new energy sources, virtual power plants, and other new entities and formats.
Despite the lack of fully developed business models, government support and ongoing exploration indicate a promising future for virtual power plants, which will encourage greater participation from businesses and residents, thus aiding the transition to green energy, said Dong.
#93
Energy company executives attending the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2024 in Boao, South China's Hainan province, have pledged aggressive plans while also calling for more global cooperation to help accelerate energy transition.
At a sub-forum titled "Low Carbon Energy Transformation" held in Boao on Friday, Huang Yongzhang, president of PetroChina, revealed that China's largest oil and gas producer is actively developing its new energy business amid the country's green drive.
New energy is becoming one of PetroChina's main businesses, and is expected to account for 7 percent of its total output in 2025 and for one-third in 2035, according to Huang.
This is just one example of China's vigorous green transition as it pursues its dual carbon goals of peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and reaching carbon neutrality by 2060.
After years of robust investment, China's total installed renewable energy capacity had topped 1,516 GW at the end of 2023, according to the National Energy Administration. This figure accounted for 51.9 percent of China's total installed power generation capacity and represented nearly 40 percent of global installed renewable energy capacity.
This progress on the path to a greener China followed the fast growth of China's new energy equipment industry, which has greatly slashed costs and made renewable energy more affordable.
China is a major producer of green energy equipment. It supplies 50 percent of the world's wind power equipment and 80 percent of global photovoltaic equipment.
After heavy investment in renewable energy, the proportion of electricity generated by wind and solar power in China has grown rapidly over the past few years, according to Zhong Baoshen, chairman of LONGi Green Energy Technology Co, Ltd.
Over the past more than 10 years, China's PV industry has made great contributions to global low-carbon energy transformation, Zhong said when addressing the panel discussion.
In response to the protectionism being applied in some countries, Zhong called for more cooperation to address challenges facing global energy transition and the impact of climate change.
"Only through global cooperation and the optimization of the allocation of resources through free trade can we accelerate this transformation and make it cheaper," Zhong said.
Zhong also touched on concerns regarding supply chain security, calling for closer cooperation between countries, the building of mutual trust and continued work to ensure long-term free trade.
#94
Multi-dimensional and comprehensive cooperation in Asia, in terms of policies, industry regulations, technologies and market mechanisms, is vital to help advance the journey toward zero-carbon electricity, experts said as a new report on green transition was unveiled on March 26.
The report, titled "Sustainable Development: Asia and the World Annual Report 2024 - Striding Towards Zero-Carbon Electricity Era and Bolstering Green Development in Asia", was released on the opening of day of the Boao Forum for Asia annual conference in Boao, China's Hainan province.
Participants in the event said the report suggests that carbon price can become an important component of the electricity pricing mechanism in future.
The release of the report has great significance at this moment as Asia has both the world's largest energy demand and greatest carbon emissions, with rising electricity consumption, said Nishant Bhardwaj, director of Green Investment Services of the Global Green Growth Institute, an international intergovernmental organization based in Seoul, South Korea.
"We all know that the power industry becomes the major force in pushing towards the realization of global net-zero carbon dioxide emissions, and the central role of electricity in this has become more and more prominent," said Zhang Lin, director of Department of Planning and Development, China Electricity Council.
Cao Li, vice-president of the Boao Forum for Asia Academy, or BFA Academy, said that on the path to zero-carbon electricity, apart from international collaboration, Asia can also rely on its abundant natural resource endowment and robust clean technology manufacturing capacities, as well as its substantial investments in clean energy. She added that carbon pricing can be integrated with the reform of the electricity market.
Dora Liu, member of Deloitte Asia-Pacific Board and Deloitte China deputy CEO, noted that Asia was the hottest region for clean power investment in the world in 2023, with a total investment of $373 billion and accounting for more than half of the global investment in clean power.
"At the same time, we also see that Asian countries have broad applications of the key technologies of zero-carbon power, and we expect Asian countries to further expand investment in those technologies in the future, to strengthen cooperation and dialogue, and to work together towards a new era of zero-carbon power," she said.
Zhou Qiangwu, vice-president and chief administrative officer of New Development Bank, the Shanghai-based multilateral development bank established by the BRICS states, said there are still numerous challenges that confront Asia in achieving energy transformation.
"Facing the issues of climate change and energy supply, countries, especially those in Asia, cannot deal with the problems alone," he said.
"Only through cooperation can we build a greener future," Zhou said. "It is encouraging that Asian countries have implemented practical collaboration on green power, at all levels, and achieved good results."
#95
China, which is showing leadership in several areas, is very important in the global transition to a clean energy future, and BHP is looking forward to continued growth as the country advances plans for high-quality development and the energy transition, the top executive of the global mining giant said at the China Development Forum on Sunday.
"China's willingness to open up wider to the world and the world's willingness to work with China are integral to achieving the future we all seek," said BHP CEO Mike Henry.
Chinese investment in emerging clean energy sectors, up 24 percent year-on-year to $676 billion in 2023 alone, is currently among the top drivers of economic growth in the country, according to Henry.
The country's economic pivot to the "new three" - of solar panels, electric vehicles and lithium-ion batteries - has also presented several economic opportunities, a mark of how important technology is to green development, he said.
Henry said while there are many pathways to domestic decarbonization, China is clear on its own specific path.
"Given the remarkable economic growth that China has unlocked in recent decades, the country's blast furnace steel facilities are much, much younger. Steel is still being added to the economy on a net basis, meaning the ratio of scrap available to demand is much lower than in Europe," he said.
Many Chinese blast furnace mills are state-of-the-art already - far less energy intensive and carbon intensive than other blast furnaces on the market with less scrap availability.
Even so, Chinese steelmakers are still showing deep commitment to reducing their carbon intensity, pursuing opportunities like hydrogen injection, as well as applying a technology like carbon capture, utilization and storage to abate higher amounts of greenhouse gas emissions, he said.
As the world will need more mining assets, such as copper and iron ore, than in the past, it is necessary to deliver them in a sustainable and efficient manner, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
Mining companies have been stepping up investment and local cooperation in China for more green opportunities in recent years, which will in turn further boost the carbon reduction progress from the raw material side and through to the production process, Luo said.
According to Henry, demand for metals and minerals required to meet the needs of a growing and wealthier population has been accelerated by the energy transition, resulting in the need for more mining, even assuming a lot more recycling.
Companies that have the financial, technical, and operational capability to meet this increased demand in ever more sustainable ways will be the winners of the future, he said.
BHP said it is committed to further supporting Chinese steelmakers through multiple partnerships.
#96
Amid its green energy transition, China will further ensure domestic energy security through technological innovation and by deepening reform and opening-up, in order to stimulate development vitality, the National Energy Administration said on Friday.
China is committed to further increasing the proportion of nonfossil energy and optimizing industrial development policies. The proportion of nonfossil energy installed capacity in power generation is targeted to increase to around 55 percent, while wind and solar power generation is aimed to contribute over 17 percent of national electricity generation.
The proportion of nonfossil energy in the total energy consumption is expected to rise to around 18.9 percent, it said in a guideline on energy work in 2024.
The government will also steadily advance the construction of large-scale wind and solar energy bases while promoting the construction of offshore wind power bases, toward deep-sea and far-offshore areas, it said.
To further ensure domestic energy supply, total energy production nationwide is expected to reach around 4.98 billion metric tons of standard coal. Coal production has remained stable with increased output, while crude oil production has stabilized at over 200 million tons, and natural gas has maintained a rapid growth trend, it said.
The latest guidance will further accelerate China's energy transition by setting clear goals for this year's development, said Zhu Yicong, senior analyst in renewables and power at independent research firm Rystad Energy.
China had experienced a historical year for renewable capacity installation in 2023, with close to 300 GW of wind and solar capacity put into operation, Zhu said.
On the other hand, the rapid development had also led to rising curtailment rates in the second half of 2023 as well as grid congestion issues in areas where distributed energy development had been rapid.
"Goals set in the latest guidance are feasible and realistic, setting a tone for steadier growth in the power sector," she said.
"The administration's latest guidance is aimed at a balanced power system as part of an energy transition pathway that not only promotes the development of renewables but also recognizes the important role of thermal power, and improving the grid's capability of integrating power from various sources."
According to the administration, the government will also advance the approval of coastal nuclear power projects in an orderly manner, while ramping up efforts in the construction of electric vehicle (EV) charging points in urban areas, along highways, and in residential communities, as the nation's NEV sector booms amid a green transformation nationwide.
According to the International Energy Agency, China, which has become a dominant force in the field of renewable energy, has several advantages that others do not possess, including the ability to approve and build transmission grids and renewable energy projects more efficiently and finance projects more easily thanks to policy priorities.
The agency believes China was the major driving force behind the world's rapid expansion of renewable power generation capacity last year, which grew by 50 percent to 510 gigawatts.
China is expected to see its position further consolidate in the next five years, as lower costs make utility-scale solar power generation more attractive compared to coal and gas power generation, it said.
The IEA forecasts that almost half of China's electricity generation will come from renewable energy sources by 2028.
#97
China should continuously develop urban and rural power distribution networks to ensure a more reliable and efficient energy supply, at a time when renewable sources are becoming more prevalent in the nation's energy mix, said a member of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, the country's top political advisory body.
While rural power grids play a crucial role in improving production and living conditions in villages, they also face challenges due to their vast geographical distribution, lengthy power supply lines, dispersed loads and the substantial investments required for construction and maintenance, said Meng Zhenping, who is also chairman of China Southern Power Grid (CSG), during the two sessions earlier this month.
A modern rural power grid network is necessary as more renewable energy projects, especially solar, go online, he said.
The power grid is a crucial component of the energy sector, and serves as a network that connects power generation sources to consumers. A large proportion of the electricity consumed in the country is traded across provincial boundaries.
Meng called for strengthened planning, coordination and management of the rural grid network, emphasizing the importance of expediting the upgrade of rural power grid infrastructure.
He also called for a digital power grid - a power network that incorporates digital communication technologies and analytics to improve grid efficiency and reliability - to optimize energy flow, balance supply and demand, reduce energy loss and enhance grid resilience against disturbances or disruptions.
Due to continuous economic development, both businesses as well as households require more power supply. Grid network upgrades make it possible to ensure uninterrupted power supply to users, he said.
The fluctuation of renewable energy sources will cause issues such as voltage instability during power transmission, which will pose additional obstacles to maintaining grid stability, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
Grid operators and power generation asset owners have been taking a range of actions to reduce grid load and prevent PV curtailment, Lin said.
Distribution power lines are fundamental power facilities that directly serve users, with a complex network structure and wide coverage, he said.
Some grid operators have been upgrading the distribution network in villages and counties to prevent problems such as long power outages and ensure service quality, he added.
"Further efforts are needed to accelerate the upgrading of rural power grid infrastructure and enhance the digitization of rural power grids. Power grid enterprises can play a major role in building digital power grids, further extending the supply chain, while strengthening weak links along the chain and promoting the high-level development of infrastructure in the energy industry," said Meng from CSG.
Increased policy support and financial backing in areas such as taxation, finance, and electricity pricing can also help boost investment capacity for the transformation of urban and rural distribution networks to better support their sustainable development, he said.
CSG is in charge of power management in many regions of South China, such as the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, where residents from rural regions account for around 10 percent of the total population, said the company.
The company has been accelerating the construction of digital power grids in recent years to lead the development of green energy in these areas. It has invested more than 470 billion yuan ($65.3 billion) since the 13th Five-Year Plan (2016-20) period in grid network construction, it said.
China's development of digital power grids has been on a fast track in recent years, with total investment in national grid construction projects in 2022 reaching 500.6 billion yuan, up 1.8 percent year-on-year, according to the China Electric Power Planning and Engineering Institute.
The power grid is a crucial platform for optimizing and allocating energy and electrical resources, said Sun Jiami, director of the National Energy Administration's grid department.
The development of grid technology helps meet growing demand for electricity and address global energy transitions, said Sun.
#98
After their respective registration with the Chinese regulators completed on Friday, KKR and Brookfield - the world's leading investment companies both opening offices in Shanghai - are ready to explore deeper in the Chinese market.
KKR Investment Management (Shanghai) Co Ltd and Brookfield (Shanghai) Private Funds Management Co Ltd have completed registration for private equity and venture capital managers in China, according to the public information released by the Asset Management Association of China on Friday.
KKR Investment Management (Shanghai), an arm of the US PE giant KKR, will see its asset under management of no more than 500 million yuan ($70 million) with its businesses covering PE investment, PE investment fund of funds, VC and VC FOF, according to AMAC information.
With its Shanghai office opened on Feb 26, KKR has two private fund managers registered in China so far, with the first one KKR Investment Management (Hainan) registered in April 2022 as a qualified domestic limited partner.
According to its fiscal results released on Feb 6, KKR made a total income of $14.5 billion for fiscal year 2023, which was 2.5 times the figure for the previous fiscal year. The company's net profit came at $3.68 billion in the 2023 fiscal year, while it reported a $590 million loss in 2022. Raising $69 billion in 2023, KKR saw its AUM reaching $553 billion as of the end of 2023.
In the 2024 Global Macro Outlook, Henry McVey, chief investment officer of KKR's Balance Sheet and head of KKR's global macro and asset allocation, wrote that the new growth drivers of the Chinese economy are industrial digitalization and the energy transition, with the respective annual growth rate as much as 40 percent. Each sector represents about 10 percent of the Chinese economy.
Given China's competitive cost and resource advantage in the above two areas, the country will look to increase its competitiveness, especially in the electric vehicle sector, he wrote.
"Investors will talk more about these drivers than they will about housing and exports, both of which we think have peaked in absolute terms and as underpinnings to the China growth story," according to McVey.
KKR set up the Hong Kong office in 2005 and registered an investment consulting firm in Beijing two years later. Its investment cases in China include Haier Group, ByteDance and Sunner Development Inc.
As one of the world's leading alternative investment companies focusing on sectors of real estate, infrastructure, renewable energies and PE investment, Canadian multinational company Brookfield started to explore the Chinese market in 2014, with its AUM reaching $15 billion in China up to date. The company's total AUM has exceeded $900 billion so far.
In mid-August 2022, Brookfield acquired a serviced apartment project in northeast Shanghai's Yangpu district for a reported 1.26 billion yuan. The 42,000-square-meter complex is Brookfield's first rental housing project in China.
Last year, Brookfield acquired the second rental housing project in central Shanghai's Jing'an district. It also acquired a 70,000-sq-m logistics project in Jiashan of East China's Zhejiang province and invested in more than 800MW of wind and solar power projects.
At the beginning of this year, the municipal government of Shanghai introduced a set of 32 policies to facilitate the high-quality development of equity investment. Efforts will be made to attract more equity investment institutions to set up operations in Shanghai to form an industrial cluster, as it is said in the policies.
#99
Expanding the use of green hydrogen, ammonia and ethanol will be crucial for China to achieve deep cuts in carbon emissions while ensuring domestic energy security, as the future growth of power generation will mainly come from nonfossil resources, according to political advisers and industry experts.
China, being the world's largest producer and consumer of hydrogen and ammonia, holds significant strategic importance in fostering the development of sustainable green hydrogen, ethanol and ammonia, said Jiang Yi, chairman of China Huadian Corp Ltd, who is also a member of the 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
Jiang suggested comprehensive research on policy support, market mechanisms and standard systems for the hydrogen, ethanol and ammonia sectors to drive commercial-scale development and application of "new energy+hydrogen/ethanol/ammonia-based energy".
The process of producing hydrogen, ethanol and ammonia from renewable energy resources and using them as a carrier for energy storage, which can later be converted back to electricity, is considered a pivotal option for deep decarbonization at the terminal end. They have been gaining more international attention for their potential as an emissions-free fuel.
Currently, hydrogen is mainly produced from carbon dioxide and natural gas without using carbon capture, utilization and storage technology. It therefore generates massive carbon emissions during the process, known as "gray hydrogen".
"Blue hydrogen" has its carbon emissions captured and stored, or reused.
Just like hydrogen, there are several different types of ammonia, depending on the energy used for its production. Green ammonia - produced using wind, solar or hydropower - is becoming the most preferable form of the fuel as it is carbon-free.
China's national emissions trading scheme (ETS) currently covers only power generation enterprises. Sectors such as chemicals and steel, which are strongly associated with the widespread application of green hydrogen, ethanol and ammonia, have not been included.
Experts believe that green hydrogen, ethanol and ammonia could be a key to the success of the country's carbon peak and neutrality goals, which aim to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.
With clear demand and the potential for use in various industries, green hydrogen, ethanol and ammonia are gaining increasing attention from governments and companies looking to shift away from fossil fuels to renewable alternatives, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
Seeing the potential for green hydrogen, ethanol and ammonia, governments across the world are exploring a variety of renewable sources to decarbonize their transport sectors and other areas. Luo believes green hydrogen, ammonia and ethanol have been emerging as a clean and versatile fuel with the potential to revolutionize various sectors.
On the other hand, China's green hydrogen production costs are declining as a result of increased technological breakthroughs, while greater investment that supports innovations in technologies can help further reduce production costs, said Luo.
As China is currently the world's largest hydrogen producer and consumer, it has substantial room for further development, he said.
Wu Mouyuan, vice-president of the China National Petroleum Corp Economics and Technology Research Institute, said hydrogen's ability to produce energy without emitting CO2 makes it a promising solution for decarbonizing sectors that are challenging to directly electrify, such as heavy industry, aviation and long-haul overland transport.
By serving as a clean fuel alternative, hydrogen can replace traditional fossil fuels while playing a crucial role in consuming and storing renewable energy, making it an indispensable energy alternative for achieving deep emissions reductions at the terminal stage, Wu said.
Jiang said Huadian aims to step up new energy project construction this year, including solar and offshore wind power, amid the country's green energy transition.
It eyes establishing an integrated energy industry supply chain that covers hydrogen, energy storage and carbon trade, while accelerating technological research and innovation to further integrate digital technologies and artificial intelligence with energy production, so as to foster new and high-quality productive forces, he said.
#100
Solar energy will be a game-changer in China's rural regions, offering a reliable and affordable answer to local energy demands while facilitating the green energy transition nationwide, according to national legislators, political advisers and industry experts.
Solar energy, with no fuel costs and low maintenance costs, has been developing rapidly in China's rural regions over the past few years, and has created savings in rural communities by replacing expensive and inefficient traditional fuels, said Zhong Baoshen, chairman of Longi Green Energy Technology Co.
It has the potential to revolutionize the energy landscape in China's rural regions, enabling millions of people to access clean and sustainable power, and be the driver toward a net-zero world, said Zhong, who is also a deputy to the 14th National People's Congress.
However, despite its rapid expansion, the sector is marred by various irregularities, including inconsistent component quality and inadequate corrosion prevention measures in crucial elements, as well as a lack of proper infrastructure such as grid connectivity and transmission lines to distribute solar energy effectively, he said.
The varying quality of photovoltaic components, coupled with a lack of maintenance and management of solar products in rural regions, pose risks to the overall construction quality of solar power stations in rural areas, leading to operational challenges and potential safety hazards, said Zhong.
He called for comprehensive policies at the national level to address the current regulatory gaps and ensure the long-term sustainability and reliability of the rural photovoltaic sector.
The absence of a dedicated operational and maintenance framework tailored specifically for rural photovoltaic installations makes it difficult to make better use of solar power, and it is urgent for the country to formulate comprehensive policies that address this gap, ensuring the development of high-quality standards for the construction and implementation of rural photovoltaic projects, he said.
According to a guideline underpinning green development in urban and rural areas released by the State Council, by 2035 green development will cover urban and rural areas in a comprehensive way, with an increased cut in carbon emissions.
China's rural areas, encompassing over 90 percent of the nation's total land area, hold immense potential for the development of rural photovoltaics. In the new era, photovoltaics will not only empower the vitalization of rural industries and contribute to shared prosperity, but also provide a robust driving force for green, low-carbon development and the construction of beautiful rural landscapes, said Zhong.
Figures released by the renewable energy center of the National Development and Reform Commission's energy research institute show that China's newly added distributed photovoltaic capacity reached 96.29 gigawatts last year, marking an 88 percent year-on-year growth. The cumulative installed capacity of distributed photovoltaics stands at 253 gigawatts so far, constituting 42 percent of the total installed capacity of photovoltaics in the country, it said.
Distributed solar power and utility solar power are two major types of solar power in China. The former refers to an approach to installing solar power facilities and generating power at or near where it will be used, such as on rooftops, and has become a major force driving installed capacity growth. It also has fewer requirements on land and cost, compared with utility solar power, which is usually deployed in massive land areas such as deserts.
As a result, numerous photovoltaic enterprises, including Longi, JA Solar Technology, Jinko Solar Co and Sungrow Power Supply Co, are launching residential photovoltaic products, while State-owned enterprises and local government enterprises, which have traditionally been enthusiastic investors in centralized photovoltaic power stations, have also joined in.
Longi said it has been teaming up with numerous State-owned enterprises, including China Energy Investment Corp and State Power Investment Corp, to jointly tap residential photovoltaic products and expand their rural use.
According to the National Energy Administration, the growth of distributed solar power's installed capacity surpassed that of utility solar power for the first time in 2021, making up about 55 percent of China's total newly increased solar power installed capacity. This trend means that distributed solar power, especially for family use, has become an important source in China's efforts to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.
In addition to reducing fees for self-consumed renewable energy and encouraging high-scale utilization of new energy sources, Zhong also suggested expanding the deployment of building-integrated photovoltaics, or BIPV, one of the two main types of rooftop solar power in addition to building-attached photovoltaics.
China's surge in rooftop solar power installations has driven up the world's total rooftop solar capacity. According to the China BIPV Association, BIPV, which takes up a major part of China's rooftop solar power market, will have a market size valued at up to 40 billion yuan ($5.55 billion) in 2025.
China plans to cover as many as half of its new buildings that are classified as public institutions with rooftop solar panels by 2025, according to a statement jointly released by the NDRC and the NEA, which also noted that China will actively promote rooftop solar power installation in rural areas and industrial parks.
"Compared with cities, China's rural areas have more spare spaces to install solar power systems at lower costs," said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
"As developing distributed solar power in rural areas also offers residents extra earnings and helps reduce power expenses, local governments and power supply companies should continue to simplify processes to better tap the potential in distributed photovoltaics in China's rural regions as long as it is legal, compliant and beneficial to the industry."
Zhang Xiaobin, executive vice-president of the Shandong Solar Energy Industry Association, believes the southern markets will continue to remain robust, including those in Jiangxi and Fujian provinces and the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region.
Wang Dongsheng, chairman of the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation who is also a political adviser this year, agreed, saying that joint efforts are required to promote the development of distributed photovoltaics in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area.
The GBA market is one of the most dynamic and internationally advanced regions in the Chinese economy, serving as a new engine for sustainable and high-quality development with massive potential for distributed solar power development and energy optimization, he said.
Research conducted by HSBC on the development of distributed photovoltaics in the GBA indicates that despite great potential, there are still various challenges in terms of investment and financing, he said.
Wang suggested enhancing government coordination and planning, innovating business models and introducing innovative green financial products to accelerate the development of distributed photovoltaics in the GBA.
#101
The United Nations Environment Assembly's sixth session has concluded in Nairobi with the adoption of 15 resolutions, two decisions and a ministerial declaration. The resolutions cover a wide range of environmental challenges as UNEA-6 underscored the critical role of international collaboration in tackling problems.
Making the closing remarks of UNEA-6 on Friday, Inger Andersen, the executive director of the UN Environment Programme, or UNEP, said the ministerial declaration the assembly adopted goes a long way in affirming the world's commitment to slowing climate change, restoring nature and land, and ridding the world of pollution.
"The UNEP will now take forward the responsibilities you have entrusted to us in these new resolutions, in addition to keeping the environment under review, and in addition to fulfilling our obligation to serve as an authoritative advocate for action across the triple planetary crisis."
Leila Benali, UNEA-6 president and minister of energy transition and sustainable development of Morocco, encouraged everyone to look at the resolutions with an open, inclusive and curious mind and a meaningful societal approach. "This is in order to keep vulnerable communities at the center of the objectives and ensure that no one is truly and credibly left behind."
Among the issues addressed by the resolutions reached are water advocacy for a comprehensive approach to managing water resources in agriculture and industry, with a particular emphasis on improving implementation methods, especially in developing countries.
The resolutions also dealt with air pollution, aiming to improve national air quality monitoring, building capacity and coordinating efforts to create and enforce air quality action plans and policies.
Governance of ocean and seas was also in the resolutions, and the assembly stressed the importance of strengthening the link between ocean science and policy, as well as maintaining collaboration and coordination on marine issues.
The Ministerial Declaration adopted at the conclusion of the assembly made it clear that member states would use sustainable multilateral actions to combat deforestation, land degradation, drought and desertification in addition to preserving biodiversity, reducing global warming and eradicating pollution.
As the curtains fell on this year's session, Andersen said the outcomes of UNEA-6 mark a significant step forward in the global fight against environmental degradation. However, the success of these resolutions and commitments will ultimately depend on their implementation by member states and other stakeholders, she said.
"UNEA-6 has opened important conversations, not all of which have landed, but I am sure that they will continue in the spirit of finding solutions that work for people and the planet."
#102
The domestic demand for petroleum products may peak before 2025, amid China's green energy transition, according to a think tank.
Oil demand is expected to rise in 2024 amid the nation's economic recovery, while natural gas has emerged as a pivotal energy source to support the domestic energy transition, an industry report released by the China National Petroleum Corp Economics and Technology Research Institute in Beijing on Wednesday showed.
China's petroleum consumption touched a historic high last year and is expected to grow in 2024, thanks to domestic economic recovery, said Wang Lining, director of the Oil Market Research Department of the institute.
"With new productive forces - which refer to technological innovation, data, smart or intelligent technologies and the like - driving an overall increase in productivity and enhancing new dynamics for economic growth, overall demand for petroleum is on an upward trajectory this year," he said.
As China aims to realize the target of carbon peak and carbon neutrality before 2030 and 2060 respectively, the low-carbon transition in the transport sector will accelerate the peak for transport oil demand.
While oil will remain the main source of transportation energy until 2035, with its share decreasing, consumption will steadily decline after 2030 with the rapid substitution of transport oil by new energy vehicles. Total oil demand is expected to drop to 650 million metric tons in 2035.
The expansion of new energy vehicles in China has been gradually replacing gasoline demand. The growth rate of gasoline demand is expected to significantly slow down this year, with a year-on-year increase of around 1.3 percent to its peak, totaling about 165 million tons, while demand for refined oil products will also reach a peak of 400 million tons, a year-on-year growth of 0.3 percent, said Wang.
Energy supply in China remained ample and stable throughout last year, according to the report. Crude oil production was steadfast at 200 million tons throughout 2023, marking the sixth consecutive year of growth. Natural gas production exceeded 230 billion cubic meters, demonstrating a seven-year streak of annual increases surpassing 100 billion cubic meters, it said.
Petroleum consumption surged to a historic peak of 756 million tons, an 11.5 percent year-on-year increase, while refined oil consumption reached 399 million tons, up 9.5 percent compared with the same period of the previous year. Natural gas consumption rebounded last year, reaching a yearly total of 391.7 billion cubic meters, up 6.6 percent year-on-year, it said.
According to Yuan Liuyan, director of the Energy Strategy Research Institute at the institute, the Asia-Pacific region continues to be a primary driver of global energy growth.
In 2023, energy consumption in the Asia-Pacific region contributed to 72.6 percent of the global increment. Of this, China's total energy consumption reached 5.72 billion tons of standard coal, with a growth rate of 5.7 percent, reflecting a positive trend in China's economic recovery, she said.
China stepped up oil and gas exploration last year, investing 390 billion yuan, a 10 percent year-on-year increase. New geological reserves discovered included around 1.3 billion tons of oil and nearly 1 trillion cubic meters of natural gas, it said.
Despite a slowdown in the growth of domestic refining capacity, the petrochemical production sector continued to expand last year, showcasing the further diversification of market participants. The total refining capacity reached 936 million tons per year, with refinery utilization rates standing at 79.1 percent, it said.
According to Wu Mouyuan, vice-president of the institute, the energy self-sufficiency rate in China continued to rise throughout last year, increasing to 85.6 percent, up 7.2 percentage points compared to that of 2016.
In 2023, the production of major domestic energy varieties maintained growth, with the total energy supply reaching around 4.89 billion tons of standard coal.
The robust support of energy supply has contributed significantly to economic recovery. The implementation of economic stimulus policies and the rapid market recovery last year have driven the consumption demand for energy such as petroleum and natural gas, he said.
#103
China's demand for petroleum products may reach its peak before 2025, amid the country's green energy transition, according to a prediction from a think tank.
Oil demand in China is expected to continue rising in 2024 amid economic recovery, while natural gas has been emerging as a pivotal energy source to support domestic energy transition, according to an industry report released by the China National Petroleum Corp Economics and Technology Research Institute in Beijing on Wednesday.
Energy supply in China remained ample and stable throughout last year, according to the report. Crude oil production remained steadfast at 200 million metric tons throughout 2023, marking a sixth consecutive year of growth.
Natural gas production exceeded 230 billion cubic meters, demonstrating a seven-year streak of annual increases that surpasses 100 billion cubic meters, it said. 
Petroleum consumption surged to a historical peak of 756 million tons, an 11.5 percent year-on-year increase, while refined oil consumption reached 399 million tons, up 9.5 percent compared with the same period of the previous year. Natural gas consumption rebounded last year, reaching a yearly total of 391.7 billion cubic meters, up by 6.6 percent year-on-year, it said.
China stepped up oil and gas exploration last year, investing 390 billion yuan, a 10 percent year-on-year increase. New geological reserves discovered included around 1.3 billion tons of oil and nearly 1 trillion cubic meters of natural gas, it said.
Despite a slowdown in the growth of domestic refining capacity, the petrochemical production sector continued its expansion last year, showcasing further diversification of market participants. The total refining capacity reached 936 million tons per year, with refinery utilization rates standing at 79.1 percent, it said.
#105
China Huaneng Group, the second-largest power utility in the world by installed capacity, said it will increase investments in new energy projects, including solar and offshore wind power, this year amid the country's green energy transition.
The company said during a news conference in Beijing on Monday that it will invest in 222 such projects nationwide this year, as part of efforts toward green and low-carbon transformation.
The company recently initiated and resumed construction of new energy projects with a combined capacity of nearly 34 million kilowatts, it said.
Huaneng's accumulated installed capacity of new energy projects exceeded 72 million kilowatts last year and new energy generation surpassed 100 billion kilowatt-hours for the first time.
The proportion of low-carbon clean energy installed capacity in the company's overall capacity increased by 5.4 percentage points year-on-year, it said.
Li Lailong, head of Huaneng's planning and new energy business department, said the company's heightened investments illustrate its commitment to sustainable and clean energy development.
Huaneng will further increase technology empowerment and innovation, intensifying efforts in research and development with a focus on pioneering technologies crucial to the evolution of the energy sector, he said.
The active involvement of Huaneng, one of the largest State-owned power generation companies in China, in various new energy projects across the country aligns with the nation's broader goals of transitioning toward a greener and more sustainable energy landscape, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
The company's expansion in the new energy sector will further strengthen its position as a leading contributor to the country's green transition, Lin said.
The significant scale of construction and production underscores the company's efforts to diversify its energy portfolio, he said.
By investing in regions like the Shandong Peninsula and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, Huaneng is contributing to the growth of new energy capacities in key economic zones in China, he said.
Lin added that the remarkable surge in investments in the renewable energy sector in China underscores the country's strategic focus on diversifying its energy portfolio and reducing reliance on traditional sources.
Investments in China's energy sector surged last year on the back of the government's commitment to fortify the country's energy infrastructure and embrace diverse energy formats, with total investment in key energy projects under construction or those newly initiated rising to 2.8 trillion yuan last year, according to the National Energy Administration.
This year marks the largest scale of construction and production for Huaneng in offshore wind projects since 2021, with such projects of scale located in the Liaoning Bay, Shandong Peninsula, Yangtze River Delta region and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, it said.
The company will also accelerate the construction of hydropower projects in the country's southwestern regions this year, to further alleviate local supply-demand imbalances while optimizing the local power structure and ensuring stable power supply, it said.
A mega photovoltaic and energy storage project, located in Southwest China's Xizang autonomous region, commenced construction on Monday.
With an installed capacity of 250,000 kilowatts, the project features a 50 megawatts/200 megawatt-hours energy storage system, making it the largest solar and energy storage project in Xizang to date.
Scheduled for grid connection in June, the project is expected to generate an annual output exceeding 490 million kilowatt-hours, equivalent to replacing about 119,000 metric tons of standard coal and reducing carbon dioxide emissions by around 329,000 tons annually.
The completion of this project is poised to accelerate the development of clean energy in the region, contributing to local economic and social development while effectively addressing local power supply and demand challenges, it said.
#106

For the past few decades, coal-fired power plants have powered factories and warmed up homes across the country, boosting China's energy market.
The Dagang power plant in Tianjin, a pivotal player in the national energy landscape since the commissioning of its first unit in 1978, has been one such.
The plant, once the largest single-unit capacity thermal power generator in China, has fostered industrial growth and supported economic development in North China for decades with stable and ample power supply.
However, as China accelerated its green and low-carbon energy transition in a bid to achieve carbon peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060, the Dagang power station, operated by China Energy Investment Corp, the world's leading coal supplier, has decided to adopt sustainable practices with advanced technology.
The power plant is currently undergoing technological upgrades aimed at enhancing overall efficiency and has introduced advanced equipment to maximize energy output while minimizing the environmental impact.
To replace four 328-megawatt units, the power station is constructing two high-efficiency ultra-supercritical coal-fired cogeneration units, each with a capacity of 660 MW.
The units will employ comprehensive dust removal measures. Emissions of sulfur, nitrogen and particulate matter will be significantly lower than national standards, it said.
Additionally, the units' cooling method will also enable zero emissions of solid waste and warm water discharge to further facilitate marine ecological preservation.
Compared to existing units, the replacement will reduce the burning of 300,000 metric tons of coal per year, while cutting carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 700,000 tons, said Wang Song, chairman of the Dagang power station.
The planned replacement project has completed all preliminary supporting documents and policy procedures and is scheduled to start in October this year. Upon completion, these projects are expected to provide heating to an area of about 28 million square meters, he said.
In a bid to diversify its energy sources, the plant has also incorporated renewable energy solutions such as solar power. Distributed solar panels are now dotting the landscape surrounding the facility, harnessing natural resources to generate sustainable electricity.
Since it became connected to the grid in 2021, the 3.78-MW distributed photovoltaic system within the station has generated around 5.03 million kilowatt-hours, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by around 4,200 tons.
As China plans to phase down coal usage between 2026 and 2030, many facilities like the Dagang power plant are implementing advanced technologies to reduce emissions while adopting energy-efficient practices, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
The process of phasing down coal in favor of cleaner energy sources involves not only integrating renewable energy sources, but also decommissioning outdated facilities. Such transitions contribute to environmental conservation and promote technological innovation, while creating new opportunities for sustainable economic growth.
The installed capacity of wind and solar power will exceed that of coal-fired electricity and account for about 40 percent of the total installed capacity by the end of this year, according to the China Electricity Council.
China's cumulative installed capacity of new energy power generation is expected to surpass that of coal for the first time this year, amid optimized power supply capacity and accelerated transition to green energy sources, said Dong Zengbo, deputy head of the council's statistics and data center.
The parent company of Dagang power station, China Energy Investment Corp, achieved a record in installed renewable energy projects last year, as the company accelerated its green energy transition while ensuring domestic energy security.
Power generation capacity last year reached 320 million kilowatts, with renewable energy accounting for 110 million kW, representing 35.5 percent of the total, said the company.
Its annual coal production reached 620 million tons last year, with coal sales reaching 830 million tons, contributing to about one-sixth of the national total, and ensuring stable domestic energy supply, it said.
#107
China is playing a leading role in the world's just transition towards renewable energies, the Deputy Director-General of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) Gauri Singh told Xinhua on Monday on the sidelines of the ongoing World Governments Summit in Dubai.
"China has always played a very important role in renewable energy," Singh said while extending her greetings to the Chinese people for the Lunar New Year, which falls on Feb 10.
"The Year of the Dragon embodies the spirit of courage, vitality, and ambition. We all need to be ambitious in how we view our common future and the future of the planet," she said.
The IRENA, with 169 members, is a leading global intergovernmental organization to promote world renewable transition, support countries in their energy transitions, and provide up-to-date data and analyses on green tech innovation, policy, finance and investment.
Thanks to China's role as a hub for manufacturing, which drives down green transition costs, a large number of countries were able to advance their national plans more smoothly, according to Singh.
According to the IRENA's Renewable Capacity Statistics 2023 published in March last year, China accounted for about 48 percent of the increase in global total renewable capacity in 2022.
Two-thirds of the new hydropower capacity, 45 percent of the new solar capacity, half of the new wind capacity, and 57 percent of the new bioenergy capacity in 2022 were installed in China.
"The beauty of what China does is that they just go and just get it done. I think that is a very important aspect of how they're also looking at international collaboration and cooperation," Singh said.
Singh added, however, there are three main challenges for the world to overcome in the renewable energy sector.
"One is that we still don't have the infrastructure in place to support the transition from centralized power plants to renewable energy," she explained.
"The second remains that this is a sector that's policy-driven. Policies need to be in place and they need to enable the transition to happen."
Thirdly, Singh said that more manpower and skills will be required to support the transition.
"We need to make sure that it's a just energy transition. We can't leave behind certain parts of the world and move forward because that's not how it will happen," she said.
"The role China plays in supporting a lot of developing countries to be able to reform and to build assets in the new energy system is incredible. If that continues and more of it happens, then we will really be able to talk about a just energy transition."
The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is hosting the World Governments Summit from Feb 12-14 in a bid to help states develop proactive solutions for future challenges.
The 11th edition of the summit brings together more than 4,000 delegates, representatives of international organizations, opinion leaders, and private sector leaders from around the globe.
During the summit, more than 120 government delegations and 80 international organizations are discussing sustainable economic growth, artificial intelligence, future governments, education, healthcare services, food security and urban expansion.
#108
China's petrochemical sector showed signs of stability and recovery last year despite rising global uncertainties, an industry report showed.
Its output, together with the trade volume of petrochemical products, rose in 2023 amid an intricate landscape, laying the groundwork for robust prospects in 2025, said Fu Xiangsheng, vice-president of the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association, during a news conference in Beijing on Thursday.
The sector has contributed substantially to both domestic energy security as well as food security, with increased output of refined oil products, fertilizers and pesticides, he said.
According to the association, exports of refined oil products, including gasoline and diesel, rebounded strongly after three years of decline, with a total export volume of 41.98 million metric tons in 2023, a 21.9 percent increase year-on-year.
National fertilizer exports reached 31.46 million tons, up 27.2 percent year-on-year, while pesticide exports amounted to 2.46 million tons, up 9.7 percent year-on-year, it said.
After two consecutive years of decline, China's crude oil imports rapidly rebounded last year, reaching 564 million tons, up 11 percent year-on-year, it said.
Petrochemical product output also witnessed rapid recovery, with the output of refined oil products reaching 428 million tons, an increase of 16.5 percent year-on-year, surpassing the previous year's growth rate by 13.3 percentage points.
The total production of major chemicals, including ethylene, sulfuric acid, and fertilizers, turned positive last year, growing by about 6 percent year-on-year to 720 million tons, according to data from the association.
Despite the growth in output as well as import and export volume, Fu stressed the need for increased production efficiency to improve profits, highlighting the sector's potential for further improvement.
While profits in the petrochemical sector have not kept pace with production last year, there is considerable space and potential for improving efficiency, said Fu.
China is on course to becoming a petrochemical heavyweight, he said.
While energy and chemical enterprises are making new contributions to ensure energy security amid global uncertainties and conflicts, concerns about severe overcapacity still persist, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
China is already grappling with distillation overcapacity, and it is necessary for the industry to prioritize structural optimization and increased investments in high-end development rather than solely focusing on expanding scale, said Lin.
Fu also said that the severity of overcapacity must be duly acknowledged.
"A significant influx of investments has geared toward expanding scale and increasing output in the past few years, with limited proportion of these investments allocated to structural optimization and high-end advancements," he said.
"This disproportionate focus on sheer scale has resulted in the overcapacity situation to some extent, underscoring the necessity for a reevaluation of strategies to achieve a more balanced and sustainable industry landscape."
On the other hand, overcapacity, together with weak demand for commodity chemicals and China's rapidly growing industries like solar and electric vehicles, are also the key drivers for companies to extend into high-end, high performing materials, said Kelly Cui, Shanghai-based principal analyst with consultancy Wood Mackenzie.
Chinese oil refiners and petrochemical companies, including State-owned oil giant China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, or Sinopec, are already investing to produce high-end chemicals for solar panels and lithium-ion batteries, eyeing greater market share from the growing demand for energy transition technologies.
With an emphasis on high-quality development, green and low-carbon transformation, and digital upgrades, the association anticipates the overall situation of the petroleum and chemical industry to relatively improve in the first half of this year, compared to the same period in 2022.
According to the International Energy Agency, the global petrochemical industry, essential to the production of clothing, tires, detergents, fertilizers, and countless other everyday products, is currently undergoing a momentous period of transition.
#109
A total of 510 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity was newly installed around the world in 2023 and China contributed over 50 percent of it, a National Energy Administration (NEA) official said Thursday.
China has grown into an indispensable force to drive the development of the world's clean energy, said the NEA's Pan Huimin at a press conference.
The briefing was held a day ahead of the first-ever International Day of Clean Energy created by the United Nations.
Clean energy investment abroad by Chinese enterprises has spread across major countries and regions, covering wind, photovoltaic and hydro power, which, on the basis of mutual benefit and win-win results, has assisted the locals in their low-carbon growth, Pan said.
Meanwhile, China continues to promote technological and product innovation, and actively integrates itself into the global clean-energy industrial chain, she added.
China's wind and photovoltaic power products have been exported to more than 200 countries and regions, helping in part to greatly reduce the costs of electricity generation over the past 10 years, according Pan.
China also welcomes foreign companies to invest and conduct business in the country, and is ready to join efforts to push ahead with the global clean energy transition, she said.
#110
China's large State-owned energy companies are focusing on wind, solar and hydropower projects overseas at a time when energy forms the largest share of investments under the Belt and Road Initiative, with most of that money going into renewables, a senior official said.
After 10 years of development, these energy enterprises are charting a new course, setting up wind, solar and hydropower projects overseas to ride the wave of a cleaner, greener future, said Lu Ruquan, head of the China National Petroleum Corp Economics and Technology Research Institute.
These enterprises are playing a key role, and coming up with more renewable energy projects in countries and regions participating in the initiative, Lu said.
China National Petroleum Corp, the country's largest oil and gas producer, has set up wind power stations at its oilfields scattered across the world, and solar power stations along its Niger-Benin oil pipeline in Africa, he said.
Lu said new energy will grow by leaps and bounds in the next decade, helping China's technology and manufacturing capabilities to facilitate a faster global energy transition, which will also reshape the domestic and international businesses of traditional oil and gas companies such as CNPC.
China's overseas energy engagement in other Belt and Road countries in the first half of 2023 was the "greenest" in terms of project type since its start, according to a recently released report by the Green Finance and Development Center at Fudan University in Shanghai.
As much as 56 percent of China's $8.61 billion in construction and investment in the energy sector in other countries and regions participating in the BRI during the first half of last year went into renewable energy such as solar, wind and hydropower projects, it said.
In 2022, fossil fuels accounted for around 61 percent of energy engagement in those regions and countries, according to the report.
Lu said, in addition to renewable energy projects, CNPC has been embarking on several groundbreaking initiatives to integrate carbon capture, utilization and storage technologies into its oilfields, as the country sees vast potential in carbon dioxide-enhanced oil recovery.
It has also been stepping up the implementation of CO2 injection technology to extract crude from aging oilfields, also known as enhanced oil recovery, using its numerous empty and mature oil and gas reservoirs to transform them into a carbon storage hub.
According to the CNPC Research Institute of Safety and Environmental Technology, the number of CCUS projects in the pipeline in China has risen significantly in the past few years, as they are considered a crucial aspect of the decarbonization efforts in the oil and gas sector in China and worldwide.
CCUS has become a focus area for China's oil and gas companies, offering a significant opportunity for the country to achieve a carbon peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060, according to global consultancy Accenture.
Lu said CNPC has strategically expanded its reach, achieving significant milestones in international markets after 30 years of overseas development.
CNPC saw its overseas assets exceed 1 trillion yuan ($139.5 billion) last year and overseas revenue stand at 1.5 trillion yuan.
The company has played a pivotal role in securing national energy resources, with cumulative overseas imports of more than 1.3 billion metric tons of crude oil and over 700 billion cubic meters of natural gas.
This evolution signifies CNPC's transformation from a domestic oil entity to a global multinational powerhouse, solidifying its position in the international energy landscape, said Lu.
The company's proactive engagement in diverse markets underscores its commitment to becoming a key player in the global energy sector, contributing significantly to both domestic and international energy security, he said.
#111
Honeywell vows to continue strengthening localized research and development in China this year despite the lackluster global economic recovery.
The multinational conglomerate is committed to accelerating the development of new products for the Chinese market, while implementing co-creation with its customers and partners, said William Yu, president of Honeywell China.
"Thanks to opportunities brought about by China's market demand in digitalization and energy transition, 2023 was a year of success for Honeywell in China," he said.
"Our aerospace business has shown strong growth. We have also made considerable gains in key fields such as industrial automation, energy transition and life sciences."
His comment came as the National Bureau of Statistics said that China's GDP grew 5.2 percent year-on-year to a new high of 126.06 trillion yuan ($17.52 trillion) last year. China's growth not only outpaces the estimated global growth of 3 percent, but also ranks top among major economies, said the NBS.
According to Yu, the Honeywell Zhangjiagang factory and Nanjing factory were recognized as provincial-level green factories in 2023, while Honeywell Xi'an factory has been recognized as a national-level green factory.
These honors highlight Honeywell's expertise in energy transition and its commitment to sustainability, he said.
2023 was also a year of transition. Honeywell has realigned its business segments to three compelling megatrends: automation, the future of aviation, and energy transition. This will enable Honeywell to realize synergies that will accelerate innovation, providing actionable solutions to partners and customers and helping make the world smarter, safer and more sustainable, he added.
#112
China has further cemented its position as a global leader in harnessing the power of its rivers to generate clean and renewable energy, as the world's largest clean energy corridor consisting of six hydropower stations along the Yangtze River is generating more green power than ever, said industry experts.
The mammoth green corridor generated more than 276 billion kilowatt-hours of clean power last year, a 5.34 percent year-on-year increase, said its operator China Three Gorges Corp.
That is equivalent to saving 83 million metric tons of standard coal and reducing carbon dioxide emissions by more than 200 million tons, it said.
An analyst said China's expertise in developing large-scale hydroelectric projects has positioned it as an international hub for hydropower innovation and collaboration.
Hydropower will continue to play a pivotal role in China's energy transition while ensuring sufficient power supply, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
China's hydropower capacity is a sustainable solution for meeting the country's growing green energy needs, providing it with a stable and reliable source of electricity. The versatility of hydropower also makes it a valuable asset for grid stability, Luo said.
Shannon Dong, an analyst with BloombergNEF, said despite a dip in overall hydropower generation in 2023, electricity output at the six mega hydropower stations expanded - contributing over 20 percent of China's hydropower generation.
"With the help of ultra-high voltage transmission lines, green electricity produced along the upper and middle reaches of the Yangtze was delivered to southern and eastern power demand centers, such as Guangdong, Zhejiang and Jiangsu provinces," she said.
"The clean energy corridor will be a significant boost to China's west-to-east power transmission program and accelerate decarbonization progress."
With a total installed capacity of 71.7 million kilowatts, the 1,800-kilometer corridor comprises six mega hydropower stations on the Yangtze, the largest river in China. Made up of 110 generating units, it transmits power from the resource-rich west to energy-consuming regions in the east.
Four of them, Wudongde, Baihetan, Xiluodu and Xiangjiaba, are located along the Jinsha River, the upper reaches of the Yangtze River, while the other two - Three Gorges Dam and Gezhouba - are situated on the middle section of the Yangtze River.
Global consultancy Accenture said in a report that hydropower's ability to rapidly adjust output levels and respond in time to peak demand periods ensures consistent and reliable power supplies, thus contributing to the overall stability of China's power grid, preventing shortages and supporting the integration of intermittent renewable sources.
It believes various regulatory resources such as pumped storage hydropower will play key roles in adjusting the power balance and flexibility regulations in China.
The clean energy corridor also plays a major role in flood control, shipping, water resources utilization and ecological security in the Yangtze River Basin, said the corporation.
By regulating water flows and providing flood control, these projects help mitigate the impact of extreme weather events, thus ensuring water availability for agriculture, industry and communities downstream, it said.
#113
Multinational corporations have voiced optimism about China's economic prospects and pledged efforts to step up investment in the world's second-largest economy, reaffirming that their long-term confidence in the Chinese market remains intact, despite the lackluster global economic recovery.
They also highlighted China's economic resilience and pivotal position in global industrial and supply chains. Experts said as China continues to advance high-standard opening-up, there are more business opportunities for foreign companies, especially in high-end manufacturing, digital transformation and decarbonization.
Their comments came as the National Bureau of Statistics said that China's GDP grew 5.2 percent year-on-year to a new high of 126.06 trillion yuan ($17.52 trillion) last year. China's growth not only outpaces the estimated global growth of 3 percent, but also ranks top among major economies, said the NBS.
"Looking at the numbers, if you look at the size of the Chinese economy, the 'next China' will be China. That is still the largest market in the Asia-Pacific region and even with growth of around 5 percent, the growth of China will then be bigger than the whole market of India and Indonesia added together," said Morten Wierod, president of the electrification business area and a member of the group executive committee of ABB Ltd, a Switzerland-based technology company.
ABB will spend more than $100 million on the research and development of its electrification business in China over the next three years, Wierod added.
"The Chinese market has shown strong vitality and innovative ability, and there is a constant demand from consumers and commercial segments," said Akihiro Fukaishi, chairman and president of electronics maker Epson China. The emergence of new business models, new formats and new technologies has stimulated Epson to optimize its products, solutions and services, he added.
"We are optimistic about the prospects of China's economic growth. Epson will continue to expand in China and provide more green and innovative products and services for Chinese users," said Fukaishi. He emphasized that intelligent and digital transformation has been regarded as one business opportunity that Epson shouldn't neglect in China.
Data from the Ministry of Commerce showed on Friday that the number of newly established foreign-invested enterprises in China reached 53,766 in 2023, up 39.7 percent year-on-year.
Foreign direct investment in the Chinese mainland, in terms of actual use, reached more than 1.13 trillion yuan in 2023, down 8 percent year-on-year, the ministry said. Meanwhile, FDI in the high-tech manufacturing sector rose 6.5 percent during this period.
Wang Yiming, vice-chairman of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, said the recovery of China's economy is expected to gather pace this year, mainly fueled by new growth drivers led by technological innovation, accelerated digital and intelligent transformation in traditional industries, and the green energy transition.
Alf Barrios, chief commercial officer of global mining company Rio Tinto, said that the scale of the country's investments in renewable energy and electrification is significant and very positive from a climate perspective, while believing China will continue to be a pivotal force for global manufacturing and trade, and an important stabilizer in the global supply chain.
China is the world's largest manufacturing country, with its manufacturing output accounting for nearly 30 percent of the global total, ranking first for 14 consecutive years, according to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.
Tetsuro Homma, executive vice-president of Panasonic Holdings Corp, said China has some unparalleled advantages, and it is shifting to an "innovative power" and "engineering power", while maintaining its status as a "big manufacturing country".
China boasts complete industrial and supply chains, a strong ability to accept new technologies, and immense potential for economic growth, which provides broad development opportunities for multinationals, Homma said.
The company is expanding its footprint in China, with a key focus on healthy and smart living space, intelligent manufacturing and new electric vehicle components. "We will continue to increase our investment in China in accordance with our business development and market demands," he added. Panasonic has invested in 17 new projects in China since the COVID-19 pandemic.
China will continue to play a crucial role in driving global economic growth and safeguarding the security and stability of global industrial and supply chains, said Zhang Jianping, director of the China Center for Regional Economic Cooperation, which is part of the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation.
He said that China will hold a greater appeal for foreign companies, especially those in the manufacturing and producer services sectors, given the nation's unwavering efforts to expand high-level opening-up by removing all restrictions on foreign investment access in the manufacturing sector and continuously optimizing its business environment.
"A series of supportive policies aimed at drawing more foreign investment, such as a shortened negative list for market entry, pilot free trade zones and implementation of the Foreign Investment Law, have all created favorable conditions for more foreign businesses to invest in the country," he added.
#114
Viewed from a distance, Lianxing looks more like a solar energy farm than a rural village of 457 households. There are solar photovoltaic panels on almost all its rooftops and in every courtyard.
For generations, residents of the village in Wuyuan county, Inner Mongolia autonomous region, depended on straw, firewood and coal for cooking and heating.
But they have now abandoned those fuels, which often made their homes dirty, 40-year-old villager Shi Baohong said.
The new power generation facilities have also brought villagers a consistent stream of income with little effort. Shi earns almost 10,000 yuan ($1,400) a year from his solar PV panels and said there is still enough space between them to plant herbs and other cash crops in his courtyard of more than 300 square meters.
As China forges ahead with energy transition and rural vitalization, Lianxing and its almost 1,400 residents are a microcosm of the synergy that can be generated when the two campaigns are promoted simultaneously.
Different development modes have emerged, with rural residents being major beneficiaries.
The National Energy Administration said the installed capacity of household distributed solar PV power generation reached about 105 gigawatts by the end of September. That's over four times the capacity of the Three Gorges Dam project - the world's largest hydropower facility.
To date, more than 5 million rural households have been covered by the distributed power generation facilities - systems installed close to the place the electricity will be used. The rapid development has not only boosted energy transformation, but also driven the growth of farmers' incomes, the administration said in November.
It said roughly half the growth in the capacity of distributed solar PV in the first three quarters of last year - almost 33 GW - was contributed by household panels.
The administration also noted the huge potential for distributed solar PV power development in rural China, saying almost 27.3 billion square meters of rooftops belonging to more than 80 million rural households are suitable sites for panels.
It vowed to further promote its "whole-county" distributed solar PV development pilot program as part of efforts to drive even greater adoption.
Launched three years ago in 676 pilot county-level areas, the program aims to tap the potential of the rooftops of government and public buildings, industrial and commercial complexes and rural homes for distributed solar PV development.
Local authorities said the distributed solar PV system in Lianxing went into operation in 2017, three years after villagers moved into new homes fitted with solar panels. Households in the village now make an average of 8,000 yuan a year from selling solar energy to the grid.
Villagers did not have to pay for the new houses or power generation facilities thanks to a land-use rights transfer project. After their resettlement, the land previously covered by the villagers' old, dilapidated houses was turned into more than 130 hectares of farmland.
All the costs for the new houses and solar panels were covered by the company that invested in a large-scale agricultural development project.
"Villagers didn't pay even a single penny. It was a house-for-house deal, and that's not half bad," the village's Party chief, Li Chou, said.
He said people from nearby rural communities have been impressed by the progress made by Lianxing's residents after seeing the way the distributed solar PV program has resulted in a significant transformation of the village's living environment.
"The village is spotlessly clean. So is every household," Li said.
With vast stretches of desert and wasteland, Inner Mongolia is particularly suitable for large-scale, concentrated solar PV energy development, but the region has also made continued progress in household solar PV installation.
Inner Mongolia's distributed solar power generation capacity increased by 400 megawatts in the first three quarters of last year, the National Energy Administration said. That took the total in the region to over 1.6 GW, with more than a quarter contributed by household panels.
The neighboring province of Gansu has also seen remarkable progress in household solar PV adoption. While some rural residents paid for installation themselves, many others were offered another option - leasing their rooftops to solar energy development companies.
Liang Hongqi, from Dujiahe village in Hezheng county, Gansu, learned about distributed solar PV from the internet in 2017.
After the local grid company told him that preferential prices could lower the cost of installing a solar PV power generation system at his home, and that he could sell the surplus power it generated to the grid, the 59-year-old quickly decided to spend 34,000 yuan to put one on his rooftop.
His six-member family, which usually consumes 120 kilowatt-hours of electricity a month, now enjoys free power supply, Liang said, adding that he has also made 24,500 yuan from sales to the local grid.
The service life of a distributed solar power system is usually 20 to 25 years, and workers from the local grid company inspect his system regularly.
"What I need to do is to occasionally clean the PV panels to ensure that their power generation capability is not disrupted by sand and dust," he said.
#115
The United States, seeking to assert its leadership and reduce dependence on the clean energy sector, has embarked on a "de-risking "strategy, aimed at "decoupling" its supply chains from China. However, insiders warn that the approach could prove unsustainable, harming both the US and the global fight against climate change.
"De-risking" through measures such as subsidies and tariffs to reduce dependence on China-dominant supply chains and implementing trade protectionism won't work, they said.
A complete "decoupling" from China is impossible, H.L. Yiu, chief corporate development officer of Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks, told China Daily at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last week.
He led a delegation from China's Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area to showcase innovations at the tech show, with a focus on sustainable technologies. Citing the region, a hub for clean energy technologies, as an example, he said that integrated supply chains, rapid tech-to-market pipelines and thriving startups hold the key to success.
He pointed at the opportunities the US lost as a result of offshoring decades ago for cheap production, leaving the country lagging in domestic manufacturing capabilities.
The Barack Obama era's $90-billion clean energy initiatives under the 2009 Recovery Act serve as a cautionary tale. Although well-intentioned, the initiatives ultimately stalled due to political interference and left many of the era's startups bankrupt.
Market stimulus
"In contrast, Beijing proactively stimulated its domestic market. The government heavily subsidized electric vehicles and domestic solar installations," said Henry Sanderson, executive editor of Benchmark Mineral Intelligence, a London-based provider of data and analysis on the battery supply chain.
The result is China's current leading position in the manufacture and deployment of both technologies, he added.
"But that feat is not solely a result of subsidies. In many cases, the Chinese scaled up and manufactured better products than Western companies," Sanderson wrote in an article published in Foreign Affairs.
Chinese companies such as Shenzhen-based YJC Group, despite facing US tariffs, are finding success with cost-effective EV batteries, attracting attention at the Consumer Electronics Show.
"We have complete supply chains, and the competing EV market in China also drives up the demand and lowers the cost," said Denny Du, YJC's vice-general manager.
He sees potential in the US, with its demand for electric golf carts and electric pickup trucks. "There are about 18,000 golf courses in the US, and electric golf carts are in great demand," said Du. "And the surging gas prices are making more farmers embrace electric vehicles."
Acknowledging that the company's US dealers have expressed concerns over supply chains, Du said, "Cost-efficient solutions win market share, regardless of origin."
In the clean energy sector, China is far ahead in terms of access to critical minerals: China produces almost 70 percent of the world's graphite for batteries, processes more than 90 percent of the manganese for batteries and produces most of the world's polysilicon for solar cells.
The US tariffs on Chinese solar products have caused the US Solar Energy Industries Association to reduce its 2023 and 2024 installation projections by 46 percent, after major developers warned of significant project delays.
Meanwhile, US renewable subsidies jumped to $15.6 billion in 2022 from $7.4 billion in 2016, according to a report by the Energy Information Administration.
Simply throwing taxpayer money at the problem, as the US has done with its renewable energy subsidies, is considered unsustainable by industry players.
In the clean energy sector, "the difficulty of successfully de-risking with respect to China has not been adequately understood by Western leaders or communicated to the public", said Sanderson of Benchmark Mineral Intelligence.
His opinion is echoed by the findings of an October report by the European think tank Bruegel.
"Part of the European Union and US response to reduce reliance on China is reshoring production, but this is economically inefficient given their limited access to critical raw materials and high production costs. Moreover, Chinese firms are far ahead of the rest of the world in green tech manufacturing and innovation," said the report.
#116
China and West Asia have complementary advantages in the areas of economic collaboration and decarbonization and their enterprises and institutions can attain mutual benefits and win-win results, according to an industry expert.
Barry Chan, head of Asia and Australia Region at China International Capital Corporation (International) Limited, told China Daily that the West Asian region is trying hard to reduce their reliance on the oil industry. Instead, they want to build up not only new energy and electric vehicle industries but also the finance, travel, and health industries where Chinese companies can come over to help foster and invest.
"In the meantime, West Asia has rich land resources with plenty of sunlight that can develop the photovoltaic industry," Chan said in an exclusive interview.
Moreover, West Asia's advantages include a strategic location between China and Europe, low taxes, and an abundant labor force coming from neighboring nations, such as India and Bangladesh.
The region looks forward to "more technology and experience", he noted, adding this is an area that China has been committed to over the past decades and can bring over resources for a mutually beneficial collaboration.
Environmentally speaking, China and West Asia can also work together to develop a sustainable future and a low-carbon economy, a mission which is also a commitment of CICC, Chan said.
"We are among the first signatories of the Green Investment Principles for the Belt and Road Initiative, and signed the Principles for Responsible Investment of the United Nations," Chan said.
Chan said that his company is actively looking at ways to help strengthen the in-depth economic and financial cooperation between China and West Asia.
CICC, as an investment bank, aims to play the role of a bridge, to promote bilateral trade, investment and financing, and strategic cooperation. "At CICC, we are committed to fostering and strengthening these crucial partnerships among China, West Asia, and beyond," he said.
According to Chan, CICC aims to set up branches in West Asia where it can act as an intermediary between local enterprises, institutions, and investors and their Chinese counterparts, using its understanding and knowledge of both sides.
Chan illustrated his point by noting CICC's involvement in software firm Kingdee International's announcement of a $200 million strategic investment from Qatar Investment Authority recently.
During the 2023 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP28) in Dubai, the UAE, from Nov 30 to Dec 13, CICC hosted the "China-West Asia Synergies in Energy Transition and Decarbonization Investment Seminar" at the China Pavilion on Dec 9.
UAE Minister of State for Artificial Intelligence, Digital Economy, and Remote Work Applications Omar Sultan Al Olama attended the event.
The seminar was a celebration of COP's achievements while the participants elaborated on what more can be done to support COP's main theme - the urgency of collective action and collaboration towards net zero.
"Our discussions (in Dubai) have paved the way for embracing innovative industrial, technological, and financial strategies essential to achieve our net-zero targets, said Chan.
At the event, he invited those representing their companies and investors from China, UAE, West Asia, and worldwide to work together to realize a green future.
"The long journey towards a sustainable future that is beneficial to all mankind requires the collective efforts of all stakeholders," Chan said. "Together, we can turn these challenges into opportunities, driving returns, sustainability, and inclusivity."
#117
China and the United States facilitated their Working Group on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s via video link on Friday. The working group was initiated to implement the consensus reached between the two heads of state at the San Francisco meeting last year and strengthen cooperation between China and the US in response to climate change.
The meeting was co-chaired by China's Special Envoy for Climate Change Xie Zhenhua and the US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry.
Vice-Chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission Zhao Chenxin, Vice-Minister of the Ministry of Ecology and Environment Zhao Yingmin, Deputy Director of the National Energy Administration Ren Jingdong, Deputy Secretary of the US Department of Energy David Turk, and Assistant Administrator of the US Environmental Protection Agency Radhika Fox, participated in the meeting as heads of the working group's subcommittees and delivered speeches.
Both sides praised the successful launch of the working group and engaged in in-depth and friendly discussions on key areas of cooperation, including energy transition, methane, the circular economy, and promoting low-carbon provinces, states and cities.
The two sides agreed to maintain close communication, exchange experiences and deepen practical cooperation within the framework of the working group mechanism, in accordance with the consensus outlined in the Sunnylands Statement on Enhancing Cooperation to Address the Climate Crisis.
Released following a meeting between Xie and Kerry from Nov 4 to 7, the statement aimed to pave the way for regular climate communication between the world's two largest economies and carbon emitters.
It proposed to carry out regular dialogue and cooperation to accelerate concrete climate action, share information and experience on policies, measures and technologies for controlling and reducing emissions, and evaluate respective implementation of the statement.
Due to health reasons, Xie, 74, who had been China's top climate representative at 16 rounds of international climate talks, stepped down from his position as China's special envoy for climate change, said a statement released by the Ministry of Ecology and Environment on Friday.
Liu Zhenmin, former vice-minister of foreign affairs and United Nations undersecretary general for the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, has been appointed as Xie's successor.
This means that Liu will be responsible for handling climate change-related affairs and representing China in international cooperation and negotiations. He is expected to continue to promote cooperation between China and the US in the field of climate change.
#118
China Energy Investment Corp, the world's largest coal miner, achieved a record in installed renewable energy projects last year, as the company accelerated its green energy transition while ensuring domestic energy security.
Power generation capacity last year reached 320 million kilowatts, with renewable energy accounting for 110 million kW, representing 35.5 percent of the total, said company spokesman Huang Qing during a news conference in Beijing on Thursday.
Its annual coal production reached 620 million metric tons last year, with coal sales reaching 830 million tons, contributing to about one-sixth of the national total and ensuring stable domestic energy supply, he said.
The company, also known as China Energy, has been accelerating the construction of wind and solar power facilities nationwide, while pushing forward the clean utilization of coal, he said.
Installed capacity of renewable energy projects that were put into operation by the company last year reached 26.16 million kW, further solidifying its position as a global leader.
Wind power installations surged to 60 million kW, maintaining the world's top spot, while photovoltaic installations exceeded 35 million kW last year, Huang said.
Traditional energy giants are increasingly veering toward an energy transition, marking a significant shift in operations by steadily increasing the percentage of clean energy installed capacity, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
Leading traditional energy companies are strategically pivoting toward cleaner and more sustainable energy sources. This shift is evident in their increased investments in renewable energy projects, including wind, solar and hydropower, Luo said.
"The trajectory of traditional energy giants transitioning toward cleaner energy is likely to persist and intensify, buoyed by advanced technology, evolving consumer preferences, and global commitments to carbon reduction," he said.
Companies that successfully navigate this transition are positioned not only for sustainability but also for long-term competitiveness in the evolving energy landscape, he added.
According to Huang, the company has also been ramping up research and application of a combination of coal and renewable energy, as well as the integration of clean coal power and carbon capture, utilization and storage, to facilitate the country's goals to achieve deep cuts in emissions.
China Energy started operations at Asia's largest coal-linked carbon capture, utilization and storage facility in Jiangsu province last year, which will capture 500,000 tons of carbon dioxide each year.
#119
Experts praise California and China for innovative approaches in green efforts
Addressing climate change and air pollution simultaneously delivers significant public health benefits, a new study has found, and California and China, with their ambitious policies and innovative approaches, offer exemplary models for the world to follow.
California, a pioneer in integrating public health into its air and climate policies, serves as a model for incorporating measurable public health indicators into policy and establishing robust monitoring networks, according to a report by the California-China Climate Institute.
Meanwhile, China has emerged as a front-runner in mitigating both air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, simultaneously boasting a comprehensive climate policy framework and a large-scale air quality monitoring system.
"Both jurisdictions provide good examples. Case studies from Los Angeles, Beijing, and Shenzhen shed insights into real-world examples of how cities are considering air quality and climate change in tandem," said Rixin Zhu, co-author of the report and a fellow at California-China Climate Institute.
The report revealed synergies between tackling climate change and improving air quality by analyzing policies and programs implemented in California and China.
For example, Los Angeles successfully combines scientific research with policymaking and integrates public health indicators in its air and climate policies. Beijing and Shenzhen are actively devising public health indicators and further controlling air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions by implementing "coordinated control" policies and carbon markets.
For the best practices implemented in California and China, the report highlights Los Angeles for "effective regional and cross-agency coordination" and the inclusion of "explicit public health motivations" as part of air and climate policy actions.
The examples of Beijing and Shenzhen share lessons of coordinated regional action, as well as the "coordinated control" of air pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions, said the researchers.
Sarah Rees, assistant deputy executive officer at the South Coast Air Quality Management District, noted that if green gas emissions can be reduced in Southern California, then the reduced air pollution levels would translate into lower rates of respiratory and cardiovascular diseases.
The report highlights specific success stories from both regions. Los Angeles' "SmartAirLA165"program utilizes asthma tracking technology to monitor cases throughout the city, aiming to reduce pollution and its subsequent hospitalizations.
Similarly, the China Meteorological Administration boasts a vast monitoring network that not only predicts extreme weather events but also assesses the impact of climate change on weather, air quality, and public health.
Additionally, China is developing a big data platform capable of automatically detecting pollution hot spots and delivering real-time information to enforcement officers, further bolstering its air quality management, according to the report.
Knowledge exchange
Beyond technology, fostering collaboration and knowledge exchange between regions is crucial. Researchers emphasized the need for regular exchanges and training programs between California and China to share best practices and lessons learned.
Yifang Zhu, a professor in the environmental health sciences department at the University of California, Los Angeles, underscored the co-benefits of addressing these issues, particularly for vulnerable populations.
She stressed that effective air and climate policies can significantly reduce global mortality and morbidity rates, leading not only to improved health outcomes but also tangible economic gains through reduced healthcare costs and increased productivity.
California's focus on integrating public health into its policies, particularly in disadvantaged communities, has led to more equitable and effective solutions; similarly, China's aggressive pursuit of air pollution and greenhouse gas mitigation is "very commendable", said Zhu.
Looking ahead, prioritizing public health and ensuring equity in climate and air policymaking is essential as both regions undergo unprecedented energy transitions, she said.
Strategically planning infrastructure, like making EV charging stations accessible to all, can guarantee that the benefits of clean energy reach everyone, she added.
"There are tremendous opportunities for California and China to collaborate and share the best practices, technological advancements and policy frameworks to enhance their efforts in improving our ecology and protecting public health," said Zhu.
"By learning from each other's experiences and continuously refining our approach, I think we can cultivate healthier communities and a more resilient population in both countries," she said.
#120
China has unveiled a new guideline on strengthening the integration of new energy vehicles with the power grid, signaling a strategic move to provide robust support for constructing a new power system and promote high-quality development in the NEV sector.
Industry experts said the new document lists several measures and responds to the challenges posed by increasing demand for battery charging. It also aims to reduce energy costs, optimize power grid operations, drive energy transition and contribute to China's carbon emission reduction goals.
The document, released on Thursday by the National Development and Reform Commission and three other central departments, said China will pilot vehicle-grid interaction in areas that are ready for implementation such as the Yangtze River Delta, the Pearl River Delta, the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, Shandong province and the Sichuan-Chongqing region.
It said the country will strive to construct more than five demonstration cities and over 50 bidirectional charging and discharging demonstration projects by the end of 2025.
By 2025, China aims to put in place the initial framework for the vehicle-grid interaction technical standards, with over 60 percent of annual charging volume in participating cities occurring during offpeak hours and more than 80 percent from private charging stations in off-peak hours.
Looking ahead to 2030, China envisions completing the basic framework for the vehicle-grid interaction technical standards, refining market mechanisms and scaling up the application of vehicle-grid interaction. NEVs will become an important part of the electrochemical energy storage system.
"It marks the first time that China has issued national-level policies on strengthening integration between NEVs and the electric grid," said Dong Xiaoyu, a senior expert at Zhongguancun Development Group. "The country seeks to manage the power demand arising from growth in NEV numbers and the increase in battery charging."
Dong, who is also a researcher at the China Energy Research Society, said the new guideline comes amid the increased maturity of vehicle-to-grid technology, or V2G, which enables EVs to adopt smart-charging methods to utilize low-cost and renewable energy when it is available and earn revenue by feeding energy back into the grid to help balance the system.
"China has seen successful tests conducted in locations like Shanghai, which means a solid technological foundation for implementing measures mapped out by the document," he said.
The new guideline said the country would take more steps to intensify key technology research on power batteries, expedite the formulation and revision of national and industry standards for vehicle-grid interaction and promote intelligent charging facilities.
"The issuance indicates that the government attaches great significance to the development of the integration between NEVs and the power grid," said Zhan Junhao, founder of Fujian Huace Brand Positioning Consulting. "The country will continue to support innovation in the NEV industry and promote a transformation in energy consumption patterns. And it will also encourage the private sector's participation and strengthen the construction of market mechanism."
Zhan said he believes that the NEV industry will embrace a new round of development opportunities. "Companies involved in the construction and operation of charging facilities will benefit from policy support. Enterprises engaged in related technology research and applications, such as the internet of vehicles, will see huge opportunities in the market."
Looking ahead, Bai Wenxi, vice-chairman of the China Enterprise Capital Union, said the country should make more efforts to support the development of such an emerging field, including introducing more favorable tax policies and financial support measures to encourage enterprises to increase investment and innovation.
More efforts should also be made to strengthen technological research and the construction of the standards system and improve the market mechanism, including building an electricity pricing mechanism for peak hours and off-peak hours, he said.
#121
With 2024 just around the corner, the world's deadline to realize the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals - our global blueprint to safeguard people and the planet by 2030 - grows ever nearer. Unfortunately, achieving the SDGs on time still seems a remote possibility.
Just 15 percent of SDG targets are on track, and progress on more than 30 percent of the targets has stalled or even regressed.
After three years of shocks and crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, high inflation and the spillover effects of the Ukraine crisis, most developing countries are faced with increasingly constrained fiscal space and spiraling debt. The combined impact of these challenges has set back global development progress by decades.
Furthermore, the climate emergency continues to worsen, threatening humanity's very existence, with 2023 set to be the warmest year on record.
No single country or actor can tackle the pressing global challenges alone. Indeed, the recently concluded COP28 climate summit demonstrated the importance of multilateralism, with the global community reaffirming its commitment to keep global warming within 1.5 C above preindustrial levels and agreeing - for the first time - to transition away from fossil fuels.
But more must be done, and must be done fast. Only through collective efforts, and by continuing to raise our ambition levels, can we hope to set the world on a trajectory toward a sustainable future.
That is why a global development partnership to accelerate the 2030 Agenda is so important.
Strengthened international development cooperation is essential to drive forward global progress on the SDGs, and to maximize effectiveness in light of scarce resources and ever-growing demands.
In particular, through vehicles such as South-South cooperation, stakeholders such as China - now among the top providers of development finance - can make important contributions to sustainable development globally.
By promoting two-way knowledge exchanges and demand-based cooperation that draws on international best practices and norms, China has the opportunity to help advance sustainable development results in partner countries in areas such as the green energy transition and green finance, building on its strength and experience.
Other actors, beyond governments, are also critical.
With the SDG financing gap standing at around $4 trillion in developing countries, 528 public development banks and development finance institutions, with their $23 trillion in total assets, will be critical to scaling up lending and collaboratively exploring more effective pathways to mobilize resources for the SDGs.
At the same time, the private sector also needs to strengthen investments to help realize the SDGs, including by redirecting finance toward sustainability and by contributing technology and know-how to power the innovation for development.
At the United Nations Development Programme, we stand ready to continue leveraging our expertise and global network across more than 170 countries around the world and convening diverse stakeholders to help advance sustainable development.
Inclusive, multistakeholder partnerships involving traditional donors and practitioners, developing countries, development banks, the private sector and civil society are required to channel the financing needed for sustainable and scalable impact to tackle the many global challenges we face.
Moving forward, the actions we take over the next seven years will determine the future of both the planet and its people. Exchanges help us enhance mutual understanding and provide a platform for stakeholders to collectively advance shared development objectives and collaborate on innovative solutions for the SDGs. Together, let us strengthen the sustainability of our international engagements and ensure an optimal SDG impact that benefits the most vulnerable, and leaves no one behind.
#122

Oil demand set to fall as country speeds up building of renewable power plants
China's oil giants are planning to ramp up green energy production and use more sustainable, low-carbon methods in oil production to reach carbon neutrality, as the future of the country's energy sector is likely to lie in greener alternatives.
With oil demand set to fall due to the country's decarbonization drive, China National Petroleum Corp, the country's largest oil and gas producer by annual output, aims to further optimize its production structure while diversifying its business in the years to come to meet the country's growing demand for clean energy.
The company has been stepping up forays into wind and solar energy, while gearing up in the integrative development of carbon capture, utilization and storage to help reduce emissions from the existing fossil fuel sector. CCUS and green power are expected to play key roles in both developing and developed countries in the years to come.
In addition to building wind and photovoltaic energy facilities in China's Gobi Desert, in response to government ambitions to speed up the construction of renewable power generation facilities in the Gobi and other arid regions to further take advantage of its abundant wind and solar resources, the company has also come up with various distributed solar and wind facilities at its oilfields, scattered across the nation, to make full use of the abundant energy resources and surplus land.
For example, the company's photovoltaic power project in the Tarim oilfield, located in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, had generated 105.81 million kilowatt-hours of green electricity by September, equivalent to 22,000 metric tons of standard coal, while reducing 70,500 tons of carbon emissions. Nearly 20 percent of the electricity generated is used for the oilfield's own consumption, it said.
The percentage of renewable energy output of the company, including solar and wind power, is expected to account for 7 percent by 2025 and further rise to one-third by 2035, equal to that of oil and gas by then, it said.
All the efforts are in accordance with China's ambitious shift from its dependence on coal to renewables for power generation - a boon to achieving the country's carbon peak and carbon neutrality goals and tackling global climate change.
According to China's 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) for the renewable energy sector, renewable power will account for more than 50 percent of the increase in primary energy consumption from 2021 to 2025. By 2025, renewable energy consumption will amount to the equivalent of saving 1 billion tons of standard coal, it said.
According to global consulting firm McKinsey & Co, as the traditional business model of oil and gas players is under pressure, investing in the sustainable-power value chain can provide them an opportunity to diversify and play a leading role as the industry transitions.
Oil and gas companies are well positioned to play a meaningful role in energy transition, considering their global scale, large balance sheets and cash positions, as well as their long-standing relationships with energy customers and stakeholders, it said.
While fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas will continue to make up a significant share of the energy mix by 2050, the market research firm believes such players can offer distinctive value propositions in energy transition, including offshore energy projects, hydrogen production and transportation, electric vehicle charging as well as decarbonization solutions.
China National Offshore Oil Corp, one of the country's three major oil and gas companies, is already working on offshore clean energy development. The company, which is also the country's largest offshore driller, plans to continuously increase the supply of clean energy, with a focus on offshore wind power.
CNOOC Guanlan, China's first deep-sea floating wind power platform, began providing green power for offshore oil production at Wenchang oil field in Hainan province in May. With an installed capacity of 7.25 megawatts, the platform will generate 22 million kilowatt-hours of electricity every year and save nearly 10 million cubic meters of natural gas, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 22,000 tons per year, it said.
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, or Sinopec, aims to massively expand its hydrogen refueling network and become China's top hydrogen supplier, as the State-owned energy giant, which owns the biggest domestic fuel transportation network and a sales network of over 30,000 retail stations, attempts to further take advantage of its extensive network.
BloombergNEF said hydrogen fuel cell vehicles are expected to experience a rapid expansion as China puts forward its dual carbon goals of peaking carbon emissions before 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality before 2060.
Ensuring sufficient energy supply in China still remains the primary task for domestic oil giants, and fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas will continue to make up a significant share of the energy mix by 2050. As a result, stepping up upstream exploitation and exploration still remains a key task for domestic oil and gas firms, industry experts said.
United Kingdom oil giant BP said in its Statistical Review of World Energy 2023 that oil is still expected to play a key role in global energy over the next 15 to 20 years, and investment in upstream sectors of oil and gas is still essential in the next few decades.
Recent energy shortages illustrate the importance of traditional fossil fuels like oil and gas and the green transition should happen step by step, said Spencer Dale, chief economist at BP.
The National Development and Reform Commission, the country's top economic regulator, said China's total energy consumption will reach about 5.48 billion tons of standard coal in 2025, of which oil and gas will account for about 30 percent. China's oil demand should peak by that time, at 742 million tons.
Under such circumstances, CCUS provides development opportunities for the oil and gas industry and is expected to become a new business growth point for oil companies, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
Sinopec put into operation the country's largest CCUS facility in East China last year, which captures carbon dioxide produced from Sinopec's Qilu refinery in Shandong province before injecting it into 73 oil wells in nearby Shengli oilfield.
The company plans to build two more plants of a similar size by 2025.
Sinopec has also vowed to set up a CCUS research and development center by 2025, focusing on developing frontier technologies such as combining CCUS with wind and solar power as well as CCUS with hydrogen energy and biomass.
China has a CO2-enhanced oil recovery potential of approximately 5.1 billion metric tons, which provides early low-cost opportunities for carbon emissions reduction, according to the CNPC Research Institute of Safety and Environmental Technology.
Additionally, geological storage potential is estimated to be around 1.21 to 4.13 trillion tons, serving as an important pathway for achieving deep CO2 emissions reduction, it said.
According to McKinsey, oil and gas players that enter new energy markets typically have a competitive advantage because risk exposures across oil and gas and power can offset each other. When energy consumption remains fairly stable, reduced consumption of fossil fuels translates into increased consumption of greener alternatives, it said.
To stay ahead of the curve in the power value chain, oil and gas players will need to be strategic and intentional in playing to their strengths, it added.
#123
COP28 consensus will help member states accelerate transition, experts say
Southeast Asian countries are expected to boost renewable energy development in line with the global commitment to accelerate energy transition, experts said.
Members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations were among the 198 signatories of the UAE Consensus on Dec 13 at the 28th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, or COP28, held in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates.
The consensus called on all parties to transition away from fossil fuels to reach net zero by 2050, keeping global temperature rise well below 2 C. It also set a target to triple renewables and double energy efficiency by 2030.
Experts said the new climate agreement will encourage ASEAN members, which are among the world's most climate-vulnerable countries, to accelerate the move toward clean energy generation.
However, they also noted that such a transition can only be possible through huge investments, which are needed to wean ASEAN economies off fossil fuels.
Helena Varkkey, associate professor of environmental politics and governance at the University of Malaya in Kuala Lumpur, said the "strong language" on transitioning away from fossil fuels in the UAE Consensus is significant for ASEAN, where many member countries have state-owned oil and gas companies.
"It is very important for these developing countries to have a basis to further push for a just and orderly energy transition, especially in terms of the financial support needed to facilitate this transition," Varkkey said.
Renato Redentor Constantino, adviser to the Vulnerable 20 Group of Finance Ministers, said the ultimate yardstick of COP28 will depend on economic benefits.
"Political commitments need to be translated into domestic investments," he said. "Otherwise, what's the point?"
New energy consumption
ASEAN is among the world's fastest-growing economies and rapid growth has likewise boosted energy consumption.
According to a joint report by the International Energy Agency and Imperial College London, natural gas and coal account for 75 percent of the region's total power generation, while the installed capacity of coal-fired power plants has grown at an annual rate of 7 percent since 2017. Renewable power accounts for about 25 percent of installed capacity and power generation, the bulk of which comes from hydropower.
"Without a dramatic shift in domestic policies and planning, complemented by financial support from international investors, ASEAN's rising electricity demand is likely to be met mainly by fossil fuels," the joint report said.
The report noted that despite falling costs around the world for renewable technologies, solar and wind project costs remain elevated in Southeast Asia due to the lack of deployment scale and underdevelopment of supply chains. It added that the region also has a problem accessing lowcost financing.
So far, Indonesia and Vietnam are the only two ASEAN countries that have managed to secure funding through the Just Energy Transition Partnership. Under this agreement, the Group of Seven nations pledged to extend financing to Indonesia and Vietnam so that they could retire their coal plants and move toward green energy.
Putra Adhiguna, director of think tank Energy Shift Institute in Jakarta, said even before the signing of the UAE Consensus, investments in renewable energy in ASEAN have been picking up.
He said the UAE Consensus is bringing in new flow of investments in the region's clean energy sector, citing Abu Dhabi energy company Masdar's investment deals with Indonesia and Malaysia.
Masdar and Indonesia's state utility firm PLN jointly funded a floating solar plant in West Java province, while Masdar also signed an agreement with the Malaysian Investment Development Authority to develop up to 10 gigawatts of renewable energy projects by 2035.
Adhiguna also said Singapore's decision to import wind power and solar energy from Cambodia, Indonesia and Vietnam "will push these countries to (hit global) renewable energy targets even if that means that they will need to sell it to Singapore first".
Singapore is targeting to import 4 GW of clean energy by 2035 in line with the city-state's commitment to decarbonize.
#12
When the negotiations at the just-concluded COP28 climate summit got stuck, China and the United States worked together, provided "some joint proposals to unlock the deadlock in the negotiations, and facilitated the success of the COP", Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change, said on Wednesday.
Xie made the remarks in a dialogue with John Kerry, the US special presidential envoy for climate, as they jointly met the media during COP28 after a historic deal was struck following a deadlock at the conference.
The two countries also agreed that "following the requirements of the Paris Agreement, and also the suggestions made in the outcome for the first Global Stocktake, China and the US will respectively reevaluate our respective long-term strategies for climate actions", he said, adding that based on it they will update the Nationally Determined Contributions, or NDCs, in order to better implement the Paris Agreement.
Xie noted that they also agreed that the two sides would operationalize their joint working group on climate change as soon as possible, in order to make progress on energy transition, the circular economy, methane emission control, and low-carbon sustainable provinces, so that they can better implement their NDCs and promote the multilateral process.
During their meeting, Kerry first introduced the status of the collaboration in the field of climate change between the two countries.
"First of all, with a great deal of back and forth, and in the weeks leading up, in the months leading up, we agreed to take concrete mitigation actions in parallel and to establish a working group to carry out pragmatic cooperation," he said.
China and the US recently released an agreement which addressed the national actions of the two countries, such as accelerating renewables and deployment to substitute for fossil fuels, as well as the elements that both considered should be included in the Global Stocktake in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, Kerry added.
"We both hope and are pleased that we think our joint work not only advanced our respective national efforts, but also reflected COP in many ways," he said.
The Paris Agreement and the Global Stocktake both stressed the importance of developing and updating long-term strategies in order to reduce emissions and enhance resilience, added Kerry.
Xie then thanked his "good friend" Kerry, saying he agreed with him on his assessment of China-US cooperation on climate change. According to Xie, he and Kerry with their teams spent some days together in Sunnylands, California, the US, in November.
Under the principle of upholding multilateralism and promoting the implementation of the Paris Agreement, they had "candid, frank, in-depth and friendly exchanges".Finally they adopted the China-US Joint Sunnylands Statement for addressing the climate crisis, noted Xie.
#125
Annual natural gas production at PetroChina Southwest Oil and Gasfield Co, a subsidiary of China National Petroleum Corp, has exceeded 40 billion cubic meters on Thursday, a record high, said the company.
This accounts for about 20 percent of China's annual natural gas production this year and 11 percent of domestic natural gas consumption, it said.
The fundamental role of oil and gas in China's energy system will remain prominent in the foreseeable future, with the importance of natural gas continuing to rise. Natural gas as the primary energy status will not change before 2040, said the company.
In response to the green energy transition worldwide, the company said it would step up natural gas output in the years to come while making good use of its abundant renewable energy resources in its oil and gas fields.
#126
Editor's note: As COP28 enters its final stretch in the UAE, this page looks at the efforts and the initiatives the UN conference has championed as well as the global pledges to fight climate change.
Apart from enhancing climate cooperation with China, Denmark also looks forward to carrying out climate projects with China in developing nations to help them cope with climate crisis.
Dan Jorgensen, Denmark's minister for development cooperation and minister for global climate policy, made the remarks in an interview with China Daily as he joined a side event at China Pavilion at the COP28 United Nations climate change conference in Dubai on Saturday.
China is "doing amazing progress" on tackling climate change, Jorgensen said.
"China is probably the most important country in the world when it comes to fighting climate change, we should all be happy with this progress," he said.
He noted that the cooperation between Denmark, where green transformation started in the 1970s, and China is of mutual benefit.
"When we did it (the green transformation), we didn't actually do it because of climate change, environment, because that wasn't on that agenda back then.
"We did it because we thought it was the most sensible thing to do with regard to energy security and energy supply," he said.
He said in the past decades, Denmark has developed technologies and know-how that it hopes it can now share with China.
The ambition, the size and the political determination of China mean it is a mutual relationship where both countries will benefit, he said.
"I'm also minister for development cooperation. So I would very much hope that we could work together, not only bilaterally with our country, but also with other countries," he said.
It is important that the two countries help some of the nations in the developing world that are right now struggling to supply clean and green electricity, he said.
It is good for everybody, if a big country like China and a country with long experience in green transformation like Denmark, work together with third parties, said Jorgensen.
Addressing a workshop on Jointly Shaping a Resolute Future for Global Energy Transformation, Jorgensen said, "I'm also pleased that China and Denmark earlier this year signed a joint green work program (on green cooperation).
"Our cooperation is strong. Our shared goal is clear: addressing climate change," he said.
According to the Green Joint Work Programme between governments of China and Denmark for 2023-2026, which was signed in August, China and Denmark will cooperate closely on climate change mitigation and adaptation as well as energy transition.
One of the focal points in the cooperation, for instance, is on cost-effective and safe energy transition, including long-term energy planning and the development of power markets.
Since China announced in 2020 its targets for peaking carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and its plan to realize carbon neutrality before 2060, the country has published its national policy framework and the 14th Five-Year plan (2021-25) on energy, including many of the same policy measures that Denmark had implemented at the national level, he said.
"With these policies, China has set out a clear direction for the future," he said.
#127
The 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or COP28, is a milestone moment as the world takes stock of the progress that has been made in implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement.
The summit, which concludes on Tuesday in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, has also sought to streamline efforts and spur ambition on climate action, including measures that need to be put into place to bridge the gaps of mitigation, adaptation and finance.
Considering the acute geopolitical crisis in the real world and the green transition toward the imperative net-zero future, COP28 presents the opportunity for all parties and stakeholders to pause, zoom in and zoom out to identify novel solutions and pathways to achieve net zero.
The first week of COP28 was full of positive signals. The first day of the climate summit saw the agreement on the Loss and Damage Fund to compensate poor countries for the effects of climate change. Leaders from around the world, including China's Vice-Premier Ding Xuexiang, also shared their views and expectations, which helped move the world's first global stocktaking closer to a conclusion that aims to increase ambition and accelerate action on climate change by informing the next round of climate action plans due in 2025. Yet any significant actions and commitments on mitigation and accelerating the transition to a net-zero economy remain to be seen.
Beyond the current challenges and old topics, there are three key points that should be highlighted.
First, building up joint leadership is needed. At COP21 in December 2015, 196 countries signed the Paris Agreement, a landmark international climate change treaty that seeks to keep global temperature from rising 2 C above preindustrial levels. Right before COP21, the United States and China had announced two joint statements, and France and China issued one. It was the joint leadership demonstrated by China, the European Union and the US that created the necessary momentum for the Paris Agreement to materialize.
COP28 calls for this kind of joint leadership. The positive step is that right before COP28, US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry and China's Special Envoy for Climate Change Xie Zhenhua met in California and reaffirmed their commitment to working jointly with other countries to address the climate crisis. It sent a strong signal in the context of the current tensions between the world's two biggest emitters. But joint leadership by the US and China is not enough on its own. More countries should stand beside them to make joint efforts to address climate change and achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals and carbon neutrality.
Second, there is a need for a change of mindset. If we look back at the previous two energy revolutions, the first was based on coal and the second on oil. Now is the time for renewable energy. The indispensable energy transition will revolutionize the global system, including social and economic development, food systems and livelihoods. Net-zero approaches should go beyond the climate camp. Net zero is about everything, everywhere and everyone. Only if everyone steps out from silos can we reach the green transition goal. In this context, different initiatives taking shape at COP28 cut across sectors. Industry and government leaders with remits far beyond climate are showing up.
Third, we need to reflect on the economic system. Climate change is an existential threat to humanity. From the Industrial Revolution until recent decades, we have been able to increase our living standards and almost eradicate poverty. However, these important achievements came at an immense cost to the biosphere and our co-inhabitants in it. Through human activities, we have systematically polluted many of our water resources and our air, poisoned our soil and caused immense damage to the Earth's biodiversity. One salient and unfortunate outcome we are witnessing is that many species are going extinct in our lifetime. Among many possible reasons, one stands out: our economic system.
This system has been serving humanity for more than two centuries. It shaped society and politics in many ways, for good and bad. In 1776, Adam Smith, who pegged the term "the invisible hand" for free markets, published one of the most important books in modern history about wealth creation and distribution, The Wealth of Nations. According to his theory, free economies can effectively create wealth while distributing it in an equal way and enabling Earth to regenerate its natural resources. In practice, however, Smith's "invisible hand" did not perform as flawlessly as expected, and the market has failed the Earth.
Climate change is perhaps the most drastic negative outcome of the current economic system. If the damage being done is not halted and reversed, it could destroy the wealth that has been created in recent centuries.
Rebecca Henderson, in her book Reimagining Capitalism in a World on Fire, pithily points out that there is a need to save capitalism from itself. Despite being one of the best economic systems created, capitalism needs to be adjusted at its core while governments, businesses and other stakeholders adapt and rewrite their social contract with the global citizenry. In this new contract, accountability and responsibility should be at the heart of the economic system.
More than ever, the world needs a shared vision for our planet. We cannot allow a daunting catastrophe to occur on our watch. The window of opportunity is rapidly closing; decisive action is needed - now. COP28 might be our best and last chance before we cross the Rubicon. To do so, we need to act jointly, wholeheartedly, and in a responsible manner. Making the needed concessions and renegotiating our economic system, regardless of how painful, is mandatory, not optional.
Leaders who gathered for COP28 should set themselves the goal of changing the global mindset and mobilizing all nations toward an agreement that can save us from the destruction of the fragile balance of life on Earth that is inevitable if the global temperature rise is not restrained. It may be a tall order, but it's the only choice. 
#128
IMF seeks efforts to avoid frittering away past gains in fragmented world
As geoeconomic fragmentation is increasingly becoming a reality, the world needs to protect economic cooperation and the multilateral trading system to avoid "an annihilation of the gains" from open trade that could result in another Cold War, a senior official of the International Monetary Fund said on Monday.
Speaking at the 20th World Congress of the International Economic Association in Medellin, Colombia, Gita Gopinath, first deputy managing director of the IMF, said national security concerns are shaping economic policies worldwide, and over the past five years, threats to the free flow of capital and goods have intensified as geopolitical risks have grown.
Those include measures such as tariffs or export restrictions, which directly target trade and investment, in addition to other behind-the-border measures that indirectly affect trade flows.
Last year alone, around 3,000 trade-restricting measures were imposed, nearly three times the number in 2019, according to the IMF official.
"While there are no signs of broad-based retreat from globalization, fault lines are emerging as geoeconomic fragmentation is increasingly a reality. If fragmentation deepens, we could find ourselves in a new Cold War," she said.
Gopinath said that attempting at "de-risking" supply chains could potentially reverse nearly three decades of peace, integration and growth that helped lift billions out of poverty.
In its latest World Economic Outlook released in early October, the IMF predicted that global growth would fall from 3.5 percent in 2022 to 3 percent in 2023 and 2.9 percent in 2024.
"With the weakest global growth prospects in decades - and with disproportionate scarring from the pandemic and war slowing income convergence between rich and poor nations - we can little afford another Cold War," she said.
Marketplace integration
Compared with the Cold War period, the degree of economic interdependence between countries now is higher, as economies have become much more integrated into the global marketplace and through complex global value chains, according to Gopinath.
"(Share of) global trade to GDP is now 60 percent compared to 24 percent during the Cold War. This will likely raise the costs of fragmentation," she added.
Citing analyses by researchers in leading US institutions, including Princeton University and Columbia University, Gopinath said the trade restrictions imposed since the start of the US-China trade war in 2018 have "effectively" curbed Chinese imports.
China's share of US imports has fallen by almost 10 percentage points in five years: from 22 percent in 2018 to 13 percent in the first half of 2023.
An IMF working paper on fragmentation in global trade, released in March, concluded that fragmentation-induced output losses can be "sizable".
Global output losses are estimated to fall between 0.3 percent and 2.3 percent in the long run depending on the fragmentation scenario, with a more severe scenario incurring up to 7 percent GDP loss, according to the research conducted by Marijn A. Bolhuis, an IMF economist, and his two colleagues.
Gopinath said fragmentation would also inhibit the world's efforts to address other global challenges that demand international cooperation. The breadth of those challenges - from climate change to AI - is immense.
"The first best solution, of course, is to avoid fragmentation. But, for the time being, this may be difficult to achieve," she said. "We must work to avoid the worst-case scenario and protect economic cooperation in a more fragmented world."
Among the ways out, the IMF official suggested a multilateral approach "at the very least" for areas of common interest.
For example, a green-corridor agreement could guarantee the international flow of minerals critical for clean energy transition. Similar agreements for essential food commodities and medical supplies could ensure minimum cross-border flows in an increasingly "shock-prone world".
Such agreements would safeguard the global goals of averting climate change devastation, food insecurity, and pandemic-related humanitarian disasters, she said.
#129
Green hydrogen made from renewable energy will play a crucial role in decarbonizing some major carbon emitters that are hard nuts to crack in climate mitigation, industrial insiders said.
Renewable energy is expected to cover 70 percent of future energy consumption, leaving around 30 percent still dependent on fossil fuels in sectors like steel, cement, aviation, and long-haul shipping, said Li Zhenguo, founder and president of LONGi Green Energy Technology Co Ltd., a leading enterprise in China's solar power industry.
He made the remark at an event on the sidelines of the COP28 United Nations climate change conference on Friday, which is scheduled to take place from Nov 30 to Dec 12 in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates.
He said hydrogen energy is the best solution for deep decarbonization in this remaining 30 percent, indicating the potential role of the flammable gas in replacing fossil fuels in these sectors.
Currently, in the global energy structure, however, the proportion of green hydrogen only covers less than 1 percent, while gray hydrogen produced from coal and natural gas accounts for as much as 96 percent, Li said.
This is mainly due to the higher manufacturing cost of green hydrogen, which is two to three times that of fossil fuel-produced hydrogen, he continued.
Therefore, making green hydrogen production clean, low-carbon, and low-cost is urgent. "This can be achieved by using low-cost solar power generation for hydrogen production," he noted.
The energy output of a single unit of a solar power module during its lifecycle is 100 times greater than the energy consumed in its production, he said.
He said sunlight is evenly distributed globally, an endless and renewable resource, and silicon, as the most important raw material for solar power generation, is widely distributed on the Earth's surface.
He pointed out that constructing PV power stations near hydrogen production facilities with abundant sunlight resources is a viable solution to reduce the cost of hydrogen production.
Zhang Jie, vice president of the Energy Investment Professional Committee of the Investment Association of China, said hydrogen is needed in many industries in China's chemical sector.
In the coal-to-chemical industry, for instance, hydrogen is made from coal to work as a raw material for almost all downstream products, he said.
He said one of the major challenges in China's energy transition is transforming renewable energy into hydrogen to support the production of these products. 
#130
The value of photovoltaic products exported by China hit a record in the first 10 months of 2023, with industry experts saying the momentum will persist through the year, buoyed by higher demand amid a green energy transition worldwide.
The export value, which includes photovoltaic products such as silicon wafers, cells and modules, reached about $43 billion during the first 10 months, the China Photovoltaic Industry Association said on Friday.
The output value of China's photovoltaic manufacturing sector also touched a record 1.3 trillion yuan ($182.6 billion), while newly installed photovoltaic power generation capacity in the country also climbed to a record 142.56 gigawatts, it said.
While the export market is diversifying, Europe remains the largest importer of Chinese photovoltaic products, accounting for around 52.9 percent of the total export value.
Solar product exports to Asian countries also rose slightly during the first 10 months, said Wang Bohua, honorary chairman of the association.
The European Union was the biggest destination for China's PV exports in 2022, buying nearly $23 billion worth of products, up 113 percent year-on-year. This is equivalent to about 84 GW of modules, more than half of China's total module exports in 2022.
According to Tan Youru, an analyst at BloombergNEF, China exported 212 GW of solar cells and modules in the first 10 months of 2023, some 19 percent more than exports in the whole of 2022.
While the value of solar product exports from China was flat in the third quarter, volumes rose month-on-month, thanks to lower module prices, he said.
As 2023 draws to a close, the solar industry is installing record volumes worldwide and selling at record-low prices. BloombergNEF has increased its build forecast yet again for this year to 413 GW worldwide, largely due to the Chinese mainland.
Wang expects China to add 160 to 180 GW of solar power in 2023, a record annual rise in capacity.
With tremendous breakthrough in photovoltaic technology in China, Wang said renewable energy will play a dominant role in the power generation landscape by 2030.
China has consistently been at the forefront of global research and development in solar power generation technology.
Longi Green Energy Technology Co Ltd, a leading enterprise in the photovoltaic industry in China, broke the world record last month with a conversion efficiency of 33.9 percent for silicon-perovskite tandem solar cells.
Improving cell conversion efficiency and reducing the cost of electricity are key drivers in the development of the photovoltaic industry.
The photovoltaic conversion efficiency of solar cells is a crucial indicator and benchmark for evaluating the potential of photovoltaic technologies, said Li Zhenguo, president of Longi.
Industry experts said the growth in solar exports from China is also helping meet growing demand for clean and affordable power, driven by markets like Europe that are aiming to increase energy security.
Europe's manufacturing capacity is relatively smaller compared with that of China and it needs to rely on China in the short to medium term, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
The increasing demand for solar power across the world will continuously provide opportunities for solar companies in China, the world's top solar manufacturer, leading to a robust rise in exports of Chinese solar components in the years ahead, he said.
#131
China is indispensable for the world's green transformation, considering the remarkable achievements the country has made in the renewables sector, international experts said on the sidelines of the COP28 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
They also called for Chinese companies to beef up their investments overseas to help further promote energy transition and address employment concerns in some countries.
Speaking at a recent event at the China Pavilion at the annual UN gathering, Erik Solheim, former executive director of the UN Environment Programme, stressed China's dominant role in the world in renewable energy development.
China's solar power sector is now 80 percent of the global total, Solheim said. The country also dominates many other sectors related to green transition, such as hydropower, wind energy, electric batteries, as well as electric cars and buses.
China likely has a 98 percent share of the electric bus market worldwide, he said.
He said China is an indispensable nation for global green transformation, adding, "If you want to promote green transformation in the world in the 21st century ... no one can do it without China. To try to decouple from China would be an absolute catastrophe, everything will go much much slower."
He said, however, this gives China a lot of responsibilities. "China also needs to understand that it cannot just export, but it also must invest."
China boasts many of the world's largest renewable power companies, and these companies "have technology and muscles to invest", he continued.
"Chinese companies will have to invest abroad, not just sell abroad ... because people are desperate for jobs everywhere," he said.
COP28 is being held in Dubai from Nov 30 to Tuesday.
Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency, said it has to be understood that a lot of achievements have been made in China regarding renewable energy development.
Birol particularly praised China's contribution to bringing down prices of clean energy equipment, saying it is of service to other countries.
Jennifer Morgan, Germany's special envoy for International Climate Action, said she is "obviously incredibly impressed" by renewable power development in China.
Morgan said she learned during her two visits to China this year that the country's capacity for renewable energy has been more than 10 times that seen in Europe's largest economy - Germany.
China's National Energy Administration said the installed capacity of renewable energy in China exceeded 1.3 billion kilowatts by the end of June, surpassing the installed capacity of coal-fired power for the first time.
"From what I'm hearing from your experts, you're going to be able to meet your 2030 target for wind and solar well ahead of schedule," she said.
That really further underlines China's role as a global powerhouse for renewables, she added.
#132
The green, green grass of home is what many economies worldwide aspire to. The road ahead remains long and rough for many, including Hong Kong, as they seek to overcome hurdles in cutting greenhouse gas emissions and meeting their objectives.
The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has set a lofty goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, but is being held back by the city's insatiable demand for electricity despite measures being rolled out to slash carbon emissions by promoting electric cars on the roads, and stepping up recycling of waste. The huge amounts of carbon emitted go to generating electricity to brighten up the "Pearl of the Orient", with less than 1 percent of the electricity coming from renewable energy sources.
The SAR's fuel portfolio for power generation comes from three key sources - about 48 percent is natural gas imported from the Chinese mainland via overground and submarine pipelines; a quarter is coal mostly bought from Indonesia and Russia; the rest is mostly accounted for by the nuclear energy provided by the Daya Bay nuclear power station - a joint venture between Guangdong province and Hong Kong power supplier CLP Group - that has been providing electricity to the city for almost three decades.
In line with Hong Kong's go-green policies, the SAR authorities and power companies aim to stop using coal to generate power, as the black solid fuel contributes up to 44 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions. CLP and the other local power supplier, Hong Kong Electric, have been gradually reducing the use of coal in the past few decades. According to "Hong Kong's Climate Action Plan 2050", published in 2021, the city commits to phasing out the use of coal for daily power generation by 2035.
The two power firms will import more natural gas as substitutes for coal. In July, a new offshore liquefied natural gas terminal began operating east of the Soko Islands, a few kilometers southwest of Lantau Island. The station, co-owned by CLP and Hong Kong Electric, enables Hong Kong to buy and receive more natural gas globally.
Structural change
Natural gas is cleaner, but is still a fossil-based fuel. Natural gas combustion accounts for 22 percent of the world's carbon emissions. To realize a zero-emission power industry, Hong Kong needs to shake off its dependence on fossil fuels and embrace more renewable energies.
The scale of renewable energy use in the city is less than 1 percent of the electricity needed - lagging behind other economies with populations similar to that of Hong Kong.
In Belgium, with a population of 11.59 million, 12 percent of the energy it consumes is generated by wind and solar photovoltaics. A third of the power used by 6.8 million people in Serbia in the Balkan Peninsula comes from renewables.
Singapore - one of Hong Kong's long-standing competitors in the Asia-Pacific - used waste, biomass and solar to generate 4.4 percent of its electricity in the first half of this year.
Experts say Hong Kong needs more extensive adoption of renewable energies to attain its carbon neutrality goal, but many challenges remain to be overcome.
"It's difficult for Hong Kong to produce a large amount of renewable energy itself as the city isn't fed with continuous strong sunlight and winds," explains Edward Lo Wai-chau, an adjunct associate professor of the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
He says he believes the mainland's resources can help Hong Kong narrow the gap with other regions in green energy transition. "The northwestern regions of the mainland are rich in solar and wind energies," Lo notes.
On the mainland, 85 percent of wind energy and 90 percent of solar energy come from the western regions. After meeting local demands, the electricity surplus produced by renewable energies, through the west-to-east power transmission program, will be transmitted to the eastern regions that rely heavily on electricity to support economic growth.
In 2022, Guangdong province received 200 billion kilowatt-hours from the western regions, more than 80 percent of which is generated by renewable energies, such as solar power and hydropower. On average, green power helps cities in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area to cut coal consumption by about 57 million metric tons annually.
"One out of every 3 kWh of electricity consumed in the mainland cities of the Greater Bay Area comes from the western regions," according to Chen Bing, general manager of a subsidiary of China Southern Power Grid, which operates grids in Guangdong, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan provinces, as well as Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region.
Lo has called for power facilities and connectivity between Hong Kong and mainland grids to be strengthened further for the city to import more energy.
Currently, Daya Bay's nuclear power and other clean electricity from the mainland are imported into Hong Kong via the CSPG network, covering about 27 percent of local power consumption. This proportion will be raised to 35 percent after various improvements to the system are completed by 2025, says Tse Chin-wan, Hong Kong's secretary for environment and ecology.
Although nuclear power is considered to be zero-emission energy, the radioactive fuels used in a nuclear power plant - Uranium-235 - aren't renewable.
The SAR government also plans to build power receiving and conversion facilities at Tseung Kwan O to import more clean energy generated by nuclear and renewable resources from the mainland. The long-term objective is to raise the proportion of mainland zero-emission electricity in the local fuel structure to 60 to 70 percent by 2035.
Lo says more infrastructures should be considered, including an improved linkage system between two local power companies' grids, to allow for emergency arrangements in times of instability.
Wind and solar power are seen as variable energy sources due to their fluctuating nature. It would be important to upgrade the stability and storage capacity of local grids as more and more electricity generated by renewable energies will be incorporated in the system, says Lo.
Technical obstacles
Under its climate action plan, the SAR government pledged to lift the proportion of renewable energies for power generation to between 7.5 and 10 percent before 2035. To this end, local companies and scientists are actively exploring the potential of hydrogen.
Citybus - one of Hong Kong's public bus operators - launched the first local hydrogen refueling station on Nov 30 to serve its planned hydrogen bus fleet. The company's first double-decker hydrogen bus is expected to enter service in Kowloon next month.
Despite the progress made in using hydrogen, production remains a huge barrier. Unlike petroleum or sunlight, hydrogen can't be mined or captured directly from nature. Instead, two mainstream ways of making hydrogen involve conversion of natural gases or water. It's hard for both to achieve net-zero emissions under the current level of technology.
Hydrogen can be extracted from natural gas, but the process is still pollutant and, therefore, hydrogen produced in this way is called "gray hydrogen", denoting its polluted way of production.
Towngas - Hong Kong's sole citywide piped gas supplier - says it's mulling an experimental project in Sai Kung by using the hydrogen separated from piped gas to generate electricity for supplying designated venues and electric vehicles.
It says hydrogen separated from its piped gas can be categorized as gray hydrogen. As a result, the company is exploring carbon capture technology - capturing and reusing the carbon dioxide emitted from combustion - to reduce greenhouse gas emissions during hydrogen production.
A better way to produce hydrogen is to use electricity to split water into oxygen and hydrogen gases. Hydrogen produced in this way is called "green hydrogen". The electricity produced should have zero-carbon emissions too.
Then, it's a chicken-and-egg problem. Power companies need green hydrogen to generate green electricity. But the electrolysis method requires green electricity to produce green hydrogen. Moreover, nine liters of fresh water are required on average to produce one kilogram of hydrogen via electrolysis. The consumption will be a great challenge for places lacking fresh water resources, such as Hong Kong.
Scientists are trying to find a solution. Ng Yun-hau, a professor with the School of Energy and Environment at City University of Hong Kong, discovered a method to produce hydrogen with visible lights by splitting water. His research team has developed a photocatalyst that can chemically react with lights, allowing the beams to split hydrogen from water.
The water-splitting process is similar to photosynthesis in plants, by which trees and bushes absorb sunlight, water and carbon dioxide to create oxygen and energies.
Ng's findings earned him the 2019 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Science Prize for Innovation, Research and Education.
He says the research is to enable the method to be applied to sewage too so that it would not consume a lot of fresh water while the photocatalytic system can be scaled up.
Local photovoltaic power generation can be a good supplement in the city's energy strategy. Many local enterprises have installed photovoltaic panels in their parking lots or on rooftops to generate power.
Hong Kong Disneyland Resort has built the largest solar energy system in town. More than 7,500 panels have been installed at the resort's 47 locations to supply power to its facilities. The system generates more than 3.3 million kWh of electricity each year, equivalent to the energy consumption of 1,000 three-person households, the resort told China Daily.
Technicians at the resort use a smart management system to monitor the operation and use of each solar panel in real time to ensure the stability of the solar power supply system and to maximize its efficiency.
Green fundraiser
Besides realizing its decarbonization aims, Hong Kong should think about using its prowess in financial services to help the Greater Bay Area's green agenda.
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement - the most significant global consensus on tackling climate change to date - provides approaches for economies to voluntarily cooperate in achieving their carbon emission reduction targets, including the trading of emission reductions among economies, companies and individuals.
The mainland opened its national carbon market two years ago. By late last year, the market's cumulative volume of carbon emission allowances, meaning the permission to emit carbon, and turnover reached 223 million metric tons and 10.12 billion yuan ($1.42 billion) respectively.
However, Hong Kong's inclusion in the mainland's carbon trading market may not be ideal, says Lawrence Iu Chun-yip, executive director of Civic Exchange - a Hong Kong think tank focusing on environmental challenges.
He explains that allowing carbon trading may trigger higher electricity bills as power companies need to buy carbon emission allowances for every unit of electricity they produce with fossil energies. The additional costs will eventually be passed on to consumers.
Instead, Iu says he believes Hong Kong's financial sector can help more green energy projects in the Greater Bay Area through fundraising.
As part of the government's efforts to promote green finance, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority is drafting the Prototype of a Green Classification Framework for the city to define sustainable economic activities and has established local green finance criteria in line with international standards.
Iu says he believes it would be a prospective move to build up global investor confidence in Hong Kong's role as a green energy fundraiser, which would greatly help turn the region's green energy projects from ideas into reality.
Hong Kong can benefit further by building renewable energy generation projects on the mainland with local partners and transmitting more green electricity back to the city.
#133
China's energy transition serves as a significant opportunity for multinational companies to deepen their market development amid the improved business environment in the country in recent years, a top executive of Fortescue said.
"China is already showing strong leadership in developing green solutions, accelerating its investment in renewable energy, technology and manufacturing," said Dino Otranto, CEO of Australia-based Fortescue Metals.
"We are already exploring a range of options to reduce emissions in the steel value chain. This includes partnerships with Chinese suppliers, customers and research institutes. Already, we are seeing strong demand for a high-grade product, which is also beneficial for producing green iron and green steel, an area we see as another significant growth opportunity," he said.
According to Otranto, China has been an important market for the Australia's iron ore giant ever since its first shipment 15 years ago.
"This year marks an important milestone in our relationship with China, as we extend our friendship beyond our existing iron ore supply chain to work together on green technology, green energy and green metals," he said.
"We remain committed to investing in the growth of iron ore business."
#134
China and Europe should expand cooperation in a wide range of fields, including new energy and green industry, as this will create new growth engines and bring about win-win outcomes, participants attending a forum said on Tuesday.
Despite a rise in protectionism and mounting uncertainties worldwide, China and Europe should continue to promote bilateral relations and pragmatic cooperation in various fields, creating a rising number of opportunities for companies, said Li Chunlin, deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission.
Li was speaking at the China-Europe Cooperation Partnership Dialogue on Shaping New Growth Drivers for Green Development held in Beijing on Tuesday.
European companies, Li said, stay ahead of technologies such as wind power, hydrogen power, comprehensive energy solutions, decarbonization in petrochemicals, energy efficiency in buildings as well as carbon capture, utilization and storage.
"China and Europe are highly complementary in fields including building a new energy system and promoting low-carbon and zero-carbon technologies, and the prospect for cooperation is promising," he said.
"China welcomes European enterprises to continue tapping into the Chinese market and actively participate in China's green and low-carbon development, collaboratively constructing a clean and beautiful world and injecting more impetus into global economic recovery and growth."
Looking ahead, Li said China is committed to expanding high-standard opening-up, and efforts will be made to create a top-notch business environment for foreign enterprises.
China has made great strides in green and low-carbon development. The country's newly added installed capacity of renewable energy hit 172 million kilowatts in the first nine months of the year, a 93 percent increase compared to the same period last year, according to the National Energy Administration.
"China is the one country that perhaps had made the most significant contributions and commitment to green development and energy transition ... In the past years, China has already demonstrated remarkable progress in developing green finance and expanding its production capacity for renewable energy," said Jens Eskelund, president of the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China.
Despite geopolitical tensions and uncertainties, he said cooperation between Europe and China remains essential.
According to Eskelund, European companies have developed and deployed effective decarbonization technologies and management practices in their home markets, and expressed a strong desire to work closely with China. This, he added, presents a strong argument for deepening industrial cooperation between both sides.
German conglomerate Siemens said it is optimistic about the prospects of China's green industry, noting its sustained commitment to cooperation between China and Europe.
Xiao Song, global executive vice-president of Siemens, said Europe possesses rich experience and technological resources in green transition, while China has enormous market potential in the scale of green industries.
"Collaboration in the green sector will not only accelerate technological innovation and widespread application but also become a crucial force in upholding economic multilateralism and free trade," Xiao added.
#135
A center of innovation in East China is producing world-leading technological breakthroughs. Zhu Lixin reports in Hefei.
Earlier this year, China's "artificial sun", an experimental device designed to harness the energy of nuclear fusion, achieved a major technological breakthrough that laid a solid foundation toward the operation of a fusion reactor.
"The Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak - aka EAST, or the 'artificial sun' - aims to unlock the secret behind nuclear fusion; the same mechanism that powers the sun," said Hu Jiahui, an engineer with the Institute of Plasma Physics at the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
The instrument, located at "Science Island", a complex in Hefei, capital of the eastern province of Anhui, has set numerous world records in nuclear fusion technology.
The giant machine simulates the conditions for nuclear fusion in the sun by creating ultra-high-temperature plasma, the most abundant form of ordinary matter in the universe. "The plasma temperature of the machine can reach 160 million C. By contrast, the core temperature of the sun is about 15 million C," Hu said.
Unlike fossil fuels such as coal, oil and natural gas, which are limited in supply and can have damaging environmental impacts, supplies of the raw materials needed for the operation of the "artificial sun" - tritium and deuterium - are almost unlimited in the world's oceans.
"The energy released during the fusion of the deuterium contained in a liter of seawater is equivalent to the energy in 300 liters of gasoline," Hu said, adding that fusion energy is safer and cleaner than traditional energy sources, and is thus considered the ideal "ultimate energy" for the future of humanity.
EAST, designed and constructed by Chinese scientists, makes China the first country to build such a device on its own. While it may still take years for people to use the energy produced by the facility, some technological improvements have already brought green energy into people's everyday lives.
In April last year, residents of the Taoxi New Village Community in Hefei's Changfeng county began using electricity produced by solar power from photovoltaic panels installed on the roofs of local buildings, which provide a steady stream of clean electricity.
Zhang Ming, general manager of Wanneng Changfeng New Energy, the company that oversees the installation, said the new energy project generates 1 million kilowatt-hours of electricity every year, which helps reduce carbon dioxide emissions by about 1,000 metric tons, equal to the amount of the gas absorbed by over 50,000 trees a year.
The energy produced by the PV panels is enough to meet the needs of the community's residents, with any surplus power generated fed into the public grid, which helps alleviate the pressure on the network during periods of peak power consumption, Zhang said.
Hu Weifeng, a community resident, said: "In the past, we used an old-fashioned solar water heater, which could only provide hot water in summer, while water leaks used to be a headache for those living on the higher floors. Now, with the new solar panels, we can use safe, affordable green electricity every day."
According to a report released last year by the National Development and Reform Commission and the APEC China Business Council, the global cost of solar photovoltaic power in 2021 was 82 percent lower than in 2010 as a result of China's progress in the field.
At the School of Chemistry and Materials Science of the University of Science and Technology of China in Hefei, researchers have been researching perovskite solar panels, a perovskite is a type of inexpensive solar cell that usually has a hybrid organic-inorganic lead or tin halide-based material as the light-harvesting active layer, which can greatly increase the conversion efficiency of sunlight into electricity.
"The perovskite layer, which is only 1 micrometer thick, is like a 'skin' on the 'apple' of crystalline silicon, the dominant semiconducting material used in photovoltaic technology, which is about 200 micrometers thick," said Xu Jixian, a professor at the school.
As a cutting-edge technology in solar power generation, the perovskite solar cell has greatly boosted the light-electricity conversion efficiency rate from 25 percent to more than 30 percent, said Xu, adding that the figure was just 3.8 percent in 2009.
New energy is just one example of what Anhui, an emerging innovation center, has achieved in recent years. Having been overshadowed by the coastal regions for decades, the inland province is now emerging at the forefront of technological innovation by achieving breakthroughs in many fields, including artificial intelligence, quantum computing and other "future industries."
Center of innovation
The province aims to build China's own global technology and innovation center for modern industrial development. Jointly founded by the University of Science and Technology of China in Hefei, the Anhui provincial government and the Hefei municipal government, the center - known as USTC Innovation Valley - was established in Anhui's capital last year. The co-founders will invest in and support global talents to incubate tech breakthroughs at the center.
On Aug 4, the first group of 25 global partners signed contracts with USTC Innovation Valley, aiming to "build an innovation system where scientists can do research and development, incubate ideas into a business, find partners, start companies and cooperate with industrial chain providers - all in a single building", said Wu Huilong, chairman of the valley's service platform company.
By 2025, the facility is expected to host more than 100,000 high-level talents from across the world and nurture 1,000 high-tech enterprises. Anhui is betting big on strategic, emerging industries for long-term innovative development. The provincial government outlined several future industries, including new energy, in its development plan for its 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25).
The province also aims to raise the share of nonfossil fuels in total energy consumption to 15.5 percent by 2025, from 9.7 percent in 2020, by accelerating the application of renewable sources, such as solar, wind and biomass.
The new energy transition of Anhui is the epitome of China's endeavors to achieve low-carbon, sustainable development. In 2020, the country pledged to peak carbon emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. In recent years, China's climate-change-oriented green economy has been developing at a rapid pace.
This year, the nation achieved a milestone when its installed capacity of nonfossil energy power generation exceeded 50 percent of the total, beating the original target of surpassing fossil fuel capacity with renewable energy by 2025.
From 2012 to last year, the share of clean energy sources in the country's total energy consumption rose from 14.5 percent to 25.9 percent.
By the end of the first quarter, China's utility-scale solar capacity reached 228 gigawatts, more than the rest of the world combined.
In terms of pushing ahead with green and low-carbon development "China is acting in a much more determined way than any other country," said Erik Solheim, former executive director of the United Nations Environment Programme. "In the environmental area, China has moved from someone sitting in the back seat into a leader."
#136
Landmark initiatives that would accelerate the decarbonization of heavy industry and ensure a just, equitable and orderly energy transition have been unveiled at the 28th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Dubai.
COP28 President Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber called the global decarbonization accelerator, or GDA, a "holistic approach, comprehensive plan for a system-wide change", that would help address the demand and supply of energy at the same time.
"Greening electricity" tackles only 30 percent of the challenges the world faces, he said, and even though it is a step in the right direction there needs to be more solutions for heavy emitting industries. That is why the plan would also include the industrial transition accelerator, or ITA, he said.
The initiative will focus on faster adoption of zero-carbon energies such as hydrogen and will push for smart policies to commercialize and scale the hydrogen value chain. And while hydrogen has made progress, one "has to consider, think and reflect" what it would really take "for the hydrogen industry to take off".
"Let's define the market and let's develop one standard for the market so we can see much more capital flow into advancing the scaling up of technology and commercialization of hydrogen industry," said Al Jaber, who is also UAE special envoy for climate change, and minister of industry and advanced technology.
"We're not there yet. The oil and gas industry must align around our north star of keeping 1.5 C within reach, and that is exactly the rationale and thinking behind the oil and gas decarbonization charter that we are announcing today."
Al Jaber also urged partners to sign the global pledge to triple renewable energy capacity and double energy efficiency by 2030. One hundred and seventeen countries have endorsed the pledge, he said.
Under the GDA, 50 companies, representing more than 40 percent of global oil production, have signed the Oil and Gas Decarbonization Charter committing to zero methane emissions and ending routine flaring by 2030, and to total net-zero operations by 2050 at the latest.
Al Jaber said 19 of them are adopting a net zero 2050 target for the first time. Thirty-one have also committed to net zero methane emissions by 2030 for the first time.
In a panel discussion with the theme "Industrial transition accelerator: Driving decarbonization of heavy industry, energy and transport at scale", experts shed light on the challenges facing heavy industry.
'Building momentum'
Michael Bloomberg, the UN secretary-general's special envoy on climate ambition and solutions and head of Bloomberg Philanthropies, said the global switch to clean energy "is speeding up and building momentum" but that it is not happening fast enough. Most of the progress, he said, has been in electricity and transportation, but not in industry.
"The challenge is how do we cut emissions while still growing the industries that fight poverty and promote prosperity?" said Bloomberg as he unveiled the ITA and its partnerships.
Its goal is to drive more capital to technology that can help decarbonize heavy industry, including promising new energy sources such as green hydrogen. Bloomberg said it will help companies develop plans to cut carbon emissions and help develop policies that support and provide incentives for those cuts.
Mark Carney, the UN special envoy on climate action and finance, said the challenges in decarbonizing heavy industry are numerous because it is both carbon-intensive and hard to electrify.
Given the interconnection, slow progress in one sector slows progress in all sectors. As a consequence of this, many companies know these heavy-emitting sectors are caught in "transition traps", Carney said.
"The ITA is not about new net zero pledges. It is about unlocking investment to deliver decarbonization solutions across steel, aluminum, cement, chemical shipping and aviation."
#137
On the inaugural day of this year's COP 28 on Thursday, the State Grid Corp of China released its latest action report on further advancing green and low-carbon energy transition, aiming to outline its commitment to pushing forward the process.
The 28th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or COP28, started on Thursday afternoon in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, with the State Grid representing the country's energy sector.
Addressing a series of heated topics, such as emerging trends in green development, global consensus on energy transition, and collaborative efforts for a clean and low-carbon future. The report systematically outlines the State Grid's commitment to a shared human destiny, its contributions to fulfilling the UNFCCC, and its future initiatives to promote green and low-carbon energy transition.
As energy stands as a vital foundation and driving force for global economic and social development, the assurance of a secure and reliable energy supply, coupled with the promotion of green and sustainable development, is a matter of global common interest.
Recognizing the pivotal role of the grid in energy conversion, optimization, and supply-demand coordination, the grid operator aims to lead as a promoter, pioneer, and guide in the green and low-carbon energy transition, the State Grid said.
Its goal is to contribute wisdom and strength to empower a cleaner and more beautiful world, charging toward a better life and empowering a more beautiful China, while actively contributing to the global green and low-carbon energy transformation, it added.
#138
US-based industrial conglomerate Honeywell said the Chinese renewable energy sector's rapidly growing momentum and future growth potential have persuaded it to deepen its cooperation in the country, in order to continue promoting the application of its technologies in carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) and hydrogen.
As China goes full throttle on its energy transition with the aim of becoming carbon-neutral before 2060, Honeywell is anticipating more growth as well as local partnership opportunities in China, said Liu Maoshu, vice-president and general manager of Honeywell Performance Materials and Technologies Asia-Pacific, a strategic business group of the global parent company.
China's energy transition is expected to provide massive opportunities for global energy corporations like Honeywell, Liu said on the sidelines of the first China International Supply Chain Expo in Beijing on Tuesday.
Honeywell is optimistic about the opportunities brought by the development prospects of China's energy, aviation, building and petrochemical sectors. There is inherent potential for technological innovation and applications, which these sectors have sought to harness in recent years, he said, adding Honeywell will continue tapping the CCUS sector in China, given its massive market potential.
According to the latest China-US statement on enhancing climate cooperation, the two countries aim to advance at least five large-scale cooperative CCUS projects each by 2030, including from industrial and energy sources. This is where Honeywell sees huge potential and plans to continue promoting the application of its technologies in China to tap the potential with local partners, Liu said.
"Our CCUS solutions are already under commercial application in China and we are looking forward to more cooperation with Chinese partners in the years to come."
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said, "Fossil fuels will still be playing a key role in both developing and developed countries in the years to come. As renewable energy still cannot replace the traditional fuel in the short term, CCUS offers a way to reduce emissions from sectors that are hard to decarbonize."
According to a report released by Shell, China, with an estimated 2,400 gigatons in storage capacity, has significant geological potential for storing carbon, second only to the United States.
Honeywell has signed an agreement with Sennics Co Ltd, a subsidiary of Sinochem International Corp, to provide processing technologies and services to Sennics' coal hydrogenation and CCUS projects. The two sides will jointly push forward the commercialization of CCUS and coal hydrogenation in China.
"The surging demand for CCUS in China provides Honeywell with a substantial opportunity to grow its energy transition and sustainability business. We firmly believe that this will further help integrate and scale up our growing low-carbon energy offerings in the country," said Liu.
#139
China, as a nation that always stands with other developing economies, will support the COP28 climate change conference to achieve breakthroughs in areas that are of concern to the Global South, Chinese officials said on Thursday.
They made the remarks as the 28th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change started in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates.
"We always stand with the Group of 77, the BASIC countries and like-minded developing nations," said Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change, during an event held at the China pavilion that has been set up to host various sessions on the sidelines of the two-week-long climate meet.
The BASIC countries are Brazil, South Africa, India and China, while the G77, the largest multilateral coordination organization for developing countries, now has more than 130 members.
Xie said that China, along with those other countries, will strive to play a constructive role in encouraging COP28 to address the key concerns of developing countries and safeguard political trust among parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. He said he looks forward to seeing friends from around the world gather in the pavilion to share their best practices in promoting green, low-carbon transition and innovation.
Ecology and Environment Minister Huang Runqiu said he looks forward to seeing COP28 firmly safeguard multilateralism and carry out the first Global Stocktake in a proactive manner.
The Global Stocktake is the first-ever assessment of the world's collective progress in achieving the goals of the landmark 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change.
"The appeals of developing nations should be fully responded to," Huang said, adding that COP28 should urge developed countries to exercise the flexibility to reach multilateral solutions.
The China pavilion will host more than 100 events on the sidelines of COP28. The pavilion, featuring two meeting areas and one exhibition area, is on the first floor of the Chinese delegation's office.
Activities focusing on energy transition, digital development, green finance and China's policies and actions on climate change will be held over 9 days with different themes such as the Opening Day, the Youth Day, the Mitigation Day, and the Technology and Finance Day.
Some sessions will focus on climate actions in Chinese cities, including Shanghai and Shenzhen, Guangdong province, while others will be about industrial sectors such as construction and power generation, the ministry said.
#140
Bilateral agreement 'quite positive' in steering world to tackle urgent crisis
A cooling of tensions in US-China relations could advance the global fight against climate change and bolster the COP28 summit, experts say.
"It bodes well," Sourabh Gupta, a senior fellow at the Washington-based Institute for China-America Studies, said of the improvement in US-China ties, including the intention to cooperate on the climate.
The 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will be held in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, from Nov 30 to Dec 12.
The summit between Chinese President Xi Jinping and his US counterpart Joe Biden in California earlier this month has set a good trend in the US-China relationship, Gupta said.
On the eve of that summit, Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change, and his US counterpart John F. Kerry jointly released the "Sunnylands Statement on Enhancing Cooperation to Address the Climate Crisis", in which the two sides announced plans to restart formal climate change talks and commit to enhanced cooperation on the matter.
"Within COP28, it's a very complicated negotiation, but you can see that both parties are going in with good faith and rowing in the same direction, hoping to make it a success," Gupta said.
The meeting between President Xi and former US president Barack Obama 10 years ago in Sunnylands, California, set the stage for a very successful Paris COP21, he said.
More than two years later, the Paris Agreement, a legally binding international treaty on climate change, was adopted by 196 parties at COP21.
Both the United States and China are instrumental in "moving the negotiations and the ball forward at the multilateral level on climate change", Gupta said, adding that both nations are "on the same page", meaning that there will be progress made at COP28 at the very least.
At a COP28 preview event on Nov 17 hosted by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, David Victor, senior associate of the Energy Security and Climate Change Program at the center, said the recent US-China climate agreement would help COP28 outcomes.
Refreshing pledges
The new agreement refreshes pledges for what the big emitters are going to do, he said.
"Maybe most importantly, it says, 'hey, we can talk openly about climate and not be always angry at each other.'
"I think that's pretty important for the two ... gigantic economies that can't disentangle themselves for reasons of critical materials and key technologies around the energy transition," Victor said.
"It's kind of a signal that these two countries can find a way to tamp down some of the diplomatic chaos that they've generated for each other."
He said the "theory of change" could help solve a big risk that the world faces in addressing climate change - "the least developed countries getting really, really upset about the lack of adequate funding".
At the same event, Joseph Majkut, director of the Energy Security and Climate Change Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the issue of methane will be critical at COP28, and it will also be important to watch whether other countries will step up to make commitments on methane.
Addressing methane emissions will also be a high priority in dealing with climate change.
Methane is a major contributor to the formation of ground-level ozone, a hazardous air pollutant, and greenhouse gases, according to the UN Environment Programme's website.
Majkut said the US-China agreement was "really quite positive" in leading other countries to strengthen their commitment to reducing methane.
"They talked about building methane commitments into future (Nationally Determined Contributions)," Majkut said. "They talked about putting together a side event at COP focused on methane and other non-CO2 greenhouse gases summit, and that's quite important."
Under the global action goal on climate change proposed in the Paris Agreement, countries that have ratified the agreement set their own goals for international cooperation based on their own situations, known as Nationally Determined Contributions.
The new US-China agreement expands the mutual commitment to include all greenhouse gas emissions, Majkut said. "That increases the focus that we'll see, I think, on methane this year, both because methane is such a powerful climate forcer - emissions reduction there helps rapidly - and can help move toward the broader climate goals and (is) seen broadly as a way of making quick progress," he said.

#141
Modi pledges to meet climate goals at COP28 as nation's air quality worsens
As New Delhi continues to struggle with worsening air pollution, an Indian delegation led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi traveled to the United Nations' COP28 climate change summit with the hope of meeting the country's decarbonization and clean energy goals.
Early last month, the Indian capital was again the most polluted city in the world, according to Swiss group IQAir, which categorized its air quality as "hazardous".The alarming levels prompted authorities to take drastic measures, including the closure of schools.
On Monday, New Delhi's air quality again turned severe. With winter approaching, northern India's air quality is reaching hazardous levels during this time of year.
As acrid smoke blankets the capital's sky, Modi will make a two-day visit to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates from Thursday to attend COP28, underlining the country's commitment to the issue of climate change.
With India holding the G20 presidency this year, climate change has been an important priority for the country and significant new steps have been outlined in the New Delhi Leaders' Declaration.
Discussions over phasing out fossil fuels and financing the energy transition will be important topics at COP28, which runs from Nov 30 to Dec 12.
Without India's cooperation, reaching a consensus on the phasing out of CO2-emitting fossil fuels at the summit is impossible, experts said.
COP28 will witness a major divide between developed and emerging economies on the issue of coal dependency, they added. Burning coal, oil and gas produces greenhouse gases, which is the main cause of climate change.
Michelle Manook, CEO of the World Coal Association, said that without India's support, it will be difficult to reach a consensus at COP28, and looking at the reality on the ground, it is difficult to ignore the importance of coal.
"For too long, our global coal value chain has allowed anti-coal sentiment to dominate and fragment us, which has resulted in a lowering of the global coal IQ," Manook said.
"Coal IQ" refers to the level of understanding of coal's contribution to society in sectors beyond power, such as steel and fertilizer, the association explains.
At a recent event in New Delhi, the World Coal Association rebranded as FutureCoal - The Global Alliance for Sustainable Coal. The trade body changed its name in a bid to revamp the image of the fossil fuel and attract new members.
FutureCoal said negative sentiment surrounding coal had "diminished the capacity and progress" of vulnerable developing nations.
India is the world's third-largest energy consuming country and meets more than 80 percent of that demand with coal and oil.
Last year, India set a target to increase coal production to 1.2 billion metric tons by 2023-24, and India's overall coal production has seen a growth of about 22.6 percent in fiscal year 2022-23, according to India's Coal Ministry.
Coal is the most important and abundant fossil fuel in India and accounts for 55 percent of the country's energy needs, the ministry said.
India generated about 73 percent of its electricity from coal last year, according to reports, despite having increased its nonfossil capacity to 44 percent of its total installed power generation capacity.
Manook said there are technologies, particularly for thermal coal, which can abate up to 99 percent of emissions.
'Cost effective'
"We did a cost-benefit study that demonstrated if you abated coal with clean technologies, it was actually cost effective compared to a green alternative," Manook told China Daily on the sidelines of the New Delhi event.
"If the intention of the global community and the Western countries is to actually reduce emissions and support developing and emerging nations, then abated coal technologies have to be on the table."
The 27 European Union member countries have unanimously agreed to call for a phase-out of "unabated "fossil fuels at COP28.
However, India cannot eliminate fossil fuels within a short time, FutureCoal board member Sunil Chaturvedi said, and everyone has to come together to reach a consensus at COP28. Even the EU has been facing difficulties in shutting down coal-based power plants.
India is making huge investments in renewable energy and has taken many measures to modernize its power plants. The Indian government is making efforts to better utilize coal for major economic progress without polluting the environment, Chaturvedi said.
Umesh Chandra Kulshrestha, a professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi, said millions of people involved in the Indian coal sector will be unemployed if coal-based industries are eliminated, so phasing out fossil fuels is a shortsighted view.
At COP26 negotiations in Glasgow, Scotland, in 2021, India led a last-minute objection to language in a proposed joint statement on phasing out coal.
India's ambitious 2030 decarbonization target, which includes decarbonizing energy to 50 percent, was also announced at the same summit.
#142
'Laggard' China powers ahead on renewable energy
Policy support, innovation and strong investment have seen the country leapfrog global competitors. Hou Liqiang reports.
More than four decades ago, lacking the necessary technology and research and development capabilities, China was only able to manufacture micro turbines for off-grid power generation.
In stark contrast, however, news about the giant leap forward in China's wind power development has repeatedly hit the headlines over the past two years.
In February last year, a 13-megawatt offshore wind turbine, which had the largest single-unit capacity in Asia at the time, rolled off a production line in Fujian province.
Only nine months later, the facility was dwarfed by a 16-MW offshore wind turbine, which was also assembled in Fujian and led the world in terms of single-unit capacity. In June, a 20-MW wind turbine produced in Shandong province set another record.
The contrast is indicative of the significant progress China has made in the development of renewable energy from a laggard to a leader, which has helped sharply bring down the cost for renewables, experts said.
While the achievement has not been easy, China has accumulated vast experiences that are instructive for other nations, especially developing states, in promoting energy transition on a large scale, they said.
Consistent and comprehensive policy support and the great importance attached to capacity building and production standards are among the factors that have helped China top the world in renewables, they added.
According to the National Energy Administration, the total capacity of grid-connected wind turbines across China only stood at 1.06 million kilowatts in 2005. By the end of last year, the capacity had soared to 365 million KW.
During that period, China saw its combined installed capacity for photovoltaic power jump from just 70,000 KW to 392 million KW. Its proportion of the global total skyrocketed from less than 1.4 percent to more than 33 percent.
By the end of June, the installed capacity of renewable energy in China had exceeded 1.3 billion KW, surpassing the installed capacity of coal-fired power for the first time.
Policy-driven process
The development of large-scale renewable energy in China has significantly brought down the global cost of renewables, said Wang Weiquan, deputy secretary-general of the Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association. "China deserves all the credit," he said.
Thanks to China's contribution, the cost of photovoltaic power generation is now as low as 1 cent for 1 kilowatt-hour of electricity in the Middle East, where the costs of land use and financing are relatively low, he said.
Wang attributed the remarkable achievement to consistent, systematic and tailor-made policies introduced during different development stages. "We have a sound system for renewable energy development," he said.
Driven by these policies, a broad market for renewable energy development was formed. This then boosted the development of upstream manufacturing industries and also the entire industry chain, he noted, citing the subsidized price for renewable energy, or the feed-in tariff, as an example.
The feed-in tariff - a surcharge on electricity bills - guaranteed solar and wind companies above-market prices for their energy, which helped attract a large number of investors to the sector, he added.
China also introduced a dedicated renewable energy law in 2005, has incorporated renewable energy development into its five-year plans since 1996, and established a sound mechanism to guarantee the absorption of newly added renewable energy output, Wang said.
In another move, the country set up the Renewable Energy Development Fund to support development of the sector, he added.
In 2009, the country's top legislature amended the Law on Renewable Energy to require electricity grid companies to buy all the power produced by renewable energy generators.
Winds of change
Hou Yuhan, group marketing director of Goldwind Science & Technology, a leading Chinese wind turbine manufacturer, underscored the importance of "continuity, stability and sustainability" in the country's policies for the development of the wind energy sector.
"Since the 1990s, China's central and regional governments have introduced a slew of policies concerning the renewable energy sector, creating a stable policy environment and favorable conditions for wind energy development," she said.
Hou added that the introduction of China's dual-carbon targets in 2020 and the national policy framework to implement the goals "have propelled the renewable energy sector to a key development stage".
In 2020, China announced that it aimed to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and realize carbon neutrality before 2060.
The country has released a raft of new policies to guide the energy transition, which have prioritized green, low-carbon energy development, scientific and technological innovation, institutional innovation, regulatory efficiency and international cooperation, Hou said.
Du Zhongming, president of the China Electric Power Planning & Engineering Institute, said China has dynamically adjusted its policies concerning renewable energy.
"Based on situations and needs at different development stages, these policies are adjusted accordingly to make the best use of the circumstances," he said.
As technology develops and economic efficiency improves in the renewable energy sector, for instance, the subsidies for renewable energy in China were gradually reduced, he said.
After six adjustments to the subsidies for wind power and eight for solar PV power, he said, the on-grid power tariffs of these two types of renewable energy equal those of coal-fired power.
The feed-in tariff has played a role in "giving a leg up" to the wind and solar PV power sectors to get them going, he added.
On Jan 1, 2021, China ended feed-in tariffs for new solar and onshore wind projects that had been in place for more than a decade. Before halting the tariffs, China introduced a mechanism in 2019 to guarantee consumption of renewable energy, setting minimum levels of regional consumption.
International cooperation
Wang, from the renewable energy industries association, emphasized the importance of a complete national standards system and international cooperation for the development of a robust renewable energy industry in China.
"Without the standards, enterprises in the sector will be sheep without a shepherd and produce products with diversified models that don't match each other and are of mixed quality," he said.
China has introduced many standards that cover not only manufacturing, but also the construction and operation of power farms, which guarantee the long-term and sustainable development of the sector and have helped reduce costs, Wang said.
In the early stages of its renewable energy development, China, then a global laggard in the sector, engaged heavily in bilateral and multilateral cooperation, Wang said.
A series of demonstration projects were implemented thanks to aid from international organizations and leading countries in wind power development, such as Germany and Denmark, he added.
China improved its capacity building from such cooperation, and a large number of talented people, including policymakers, entrepreneurs and skilled workers, were developed, Wang said. Many senior executives now at leading solar and wind power companies in China participated in training programs during the period of cooperation, he added.
International companies also invested in China, and these investments were mutually beneficial, he said. While those companies made profits in the Chinese market, China managed to master the technologies it needed to develop the industry.
"The development of China's wind power industry has been closely linked to the wind power technology acquired through international cooperation," Goldwind's Hou said.
As early starters, developed nations' wind power industries had accumulated abundant capital and technology. However, they also needed to expand their markets when China's wind energy sector was in its infancy, she said.
Against the backdrop of globalization, Hou said China saw its earliest batch of wind power projects launched with support from international companies, which brought opportunities for companies like Goldwind to learn about advanced equipment and technologies used overseas. Hou said Goldwind also seized all available opportunities to go overseas to learn.
Wu Gang, the company's chairman, has led study tours many times to European countries that are leaders in wind power development.
"By consistently digesting, absorbing and upgrading (international technologies), Goldwind embarked on the path of independent research and development, ultimately succeeding in manufacturing China's own big wind turbines," Hou said.
Li Chuangjun, director of the National Energy Administration's new energy and renewable energy department, underscored the role of innovation, which was fueled at the very beginning by international cooperation during China's renewable energy industry boom.
He said innovation in China's renewable energy sector has introduced, digested, absorbed, and "re-innovated" various technologies.
The country's wind power sector has surpassed international levels in terms of large-scale technology and floating units, with breakthroughs in building key components such as spindle bearings for high-power units and ultra-long blades, he said.
"Through international cooperation, China managed to rapidly narrow the gap to international leaders by learning from their strong points and eventually surpass them," he said.
#143
SAN FRANCISCO -- The 30th Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Economic Leaders' Meeting concluded in San Francisco on Friday with adoption of Golden Gate Declaration on creating a resilient and sustainable future for all.
"We must harness technological and economic progress to continue to unleash the enormous potential and tremendous dynamism across our region, spur economic growth, as well as to address all environmental challenges, including climate change," the declaration says.
The declaration was adopted after the two-day meeting, during which the leaders focused on the subjects of sustainability, climate, just energy transition, interconnectedness and building inclusive and resilient economies.
In the document, the leaders reaffirm their determination to deliver a free, open, fair, non-discriminatory, transparent, inclusive, and predictable trade and investment environment.
They also reaffirm the importance of the rules-based multilateral trading system, with the World Trade Organization at its core, which continues to catalyze APEC region's extraordinary growth.
APEC economies are committed to enhancing their capacity building and technical cooperation efforts in support of economies' readiness to participate in high quality and comprehensive regional undertakings, according to the declaration.
"We will continue to work to ensure a level playing field to foster a favorable trade and investment environment," the declaration says.
The world continues to confront profound challenges posed by the impacts of climate change.
The leaders recognize that more intensive efforts are needed for economies to accelerate their clean, sustainable, just, affordable, and inclusive energy transitions through various pathways, consistent with global net-zero greenhouse gas emissions or carbon neutrality by or around mid-century, while taking into account the latest scientific developments and different domestic circumstances.
APEC economies vow to accelerate the transition towards low and zero emissions vehicles; sustainable aviation fuels; and low and zero emission maritime shipping and port decarbonization, reads the document.
The leaders also reaffirm their commitment to create an enabling, inclusive, open, fair and non-discriminatory digital ecosystem for business and consumers.
The leaders' meeting, held in Moscone Center in downtown San Francisco on Thursday and Friday, gathered political and business leaders from the 21 APEC member economies.
The leaders' meeting is the highlight of the APEC Leaders' Week, held in San Francisco on Nov 11-17 with the theme of "Creating a Resilient and Sustainable Future for All."
The United States is passing the APEC host year responsibilities to Peru as the host of APEC in 2024.
This year marks the 30th anniversary of the first-ever leaders' meeting that took place in 1993, when the host country -- the United States -- upgraded the APEC meeting mechanism from the ministerial level to the level of an informal leaders' meeting.
#144
President Xi Jinping said on Thursday that sustainable development is the "golden key" to solving current global problems.
At an informal dialogue and working lunch during the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Economic Leaders' Meeting, Xi said in recent years, APEC has delivered on the Putrajaya Vision 2040 and vigorously implemented the Bangkok Goals on Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy, making positive contributions to global green and sustainable growth.
"Under the current circumstances, we need to further build consensus and focus on actions to inject greater impetus into the cause of global sustainable development," he said.
First, accelerate the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Xi proposed. "We should put development firmly at the center of the global agenda, build a political consensus that everyone values development and all countries work together for cooperation," he said.
China has put forward the Global Development Initiative (GDI) and made positive efforts to promote synergy among the international community and address development deficits, Xi said.
Second, forge a new path of transformation for green development, he proposed. Countries should jointly promote the transformation and upgrading of energy, industrial and transportation structures, promote carbon reduction, pollution reduction, green expansion and growth in a coordinated manner, promote the fair transformation of labor force and high-quality employment, and build a homeland of coordinated advancement of economy and the environment, he said.
Third, build global synergy to address climate change, Xi proposed, calling on countries to uphold the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change as a main channel in global climate governance, adhere to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, formulate climate targets in line with respective national conditions, address the concerns of developing countries in terms of financing, capacity building and technology transfer, and promote the full and effective implementation of the convention and the Paris Agreement.
China has thoroughly implemented the new development concept, promoted the comprehensive green and low-carbon transformation of the economy and society, and contributed continuously to co-building a homeland of harmonious coexistence between humanity and nature, Xi said.
To promote the green Belt and Road Initiative, China will continue to deepen cooperation in green infrastructure, green energy, green transportation and other fields, and support the capacity building of developing countries through the special fund for South-South cooperation on climate change, he said.
China is ready to work with all parties to make greater contributions to building a global development community as well as a clean and beautiful world, Xi added.
The dialogue, chaired by US President Joe Biden, was themed on sustainability, climate and just energy transition.
#145
Trade of green power in China grew steadily and reached 87.8 billion kilowatt-hours by the end of October, with 148 million green certificates issued, showing positive signs of China's energy transition, according to the National Energy Administration on Wednesday.
Green certificate is proof of traded electricity generated from renewable sources.
Song Hongkun, director of the market regulation department of the NEA, said "Against the backdrop of large-scale development of new energy, China is innovating market mechanisms, vigorously promoting the green transformation of energy and electricity production methods, encouraging active consumption of green energy, fostering a green and low-carbon production and lifestyle, and supporting the setup of a new energy system and the achievement of the country's decarbonization goals."
The remarks were made in an interview on the eve of the sixth Asia Pacific Energy Regulatory Forum that officially opened on Thursday.
During the forum, the NEA released a report on the exploration and practice of China's energy regulation, which it said played an important role in facilitating the green and low-carbon development of the energy industry.
The report summarized the achievements of China's energy development, reviewed the development process of energy regulation over the past 20 years, and outlined the exploration, practice, and effectiveness of energy regulation in ensuring the implementation of national energy planning policies.
Zhang Jianhua, head of the NEA, pointed out that energy regulation in Asia-Pacific countries and regions has played a significant role in safeguarding energy security, promoting fair market competition, and protecting the rights and interests of energy investors and consumers.

Zhang said that going forward, China's energy regulation will focus more on ensuring energy security, intensifying efforts towards green and low-carbon energy transformation, optimizing the broader allocation of energy resources, meeting the energy needs of livelihoods, and enhancing the overall efficiency of energy regulation.
#146
Climate: Statement represents 'substantive progress', expert says
The latest China-United States statement on enhancing climate cooperation has injected strong momentum into global efforts to make progress at the upcoming 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or COP28, experts said.
They said the statement, which vows to put into operation a working group that the two nations decided to establish in 2021, has laid important foundations for regular climate communication between the world's two largest economies and carbon emitters.
The Sunnylands Statement on Enhancing Cooperation to Address the Climate Crisis was made public following a meeting between China's Special Envoy for Climate Change Xie Zhenhua and US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry in Sunnylands, California, from Nov 4 to 7.
The statement has especially highlighted Sino-US cooperation for COP28, which will be held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, from Nov 30 to Dec 12 and mark the conclusion of the first Global Stocktake.
The statement emphasized that the stocktake is "a vital opportunity for the parties to reflect on ambition, implementation and cooperation".
"Both countries are committed to working with each other and with other parties to adopt a consensus Global Stocktake decision," it noted.
The decision "should reflect that substantially more ambition and implementation on action and support will be needed to achieve the Paris Agreement's goals, recognizing different national circumstances", it added.
The statement also said that China and the US are committed to furthering their dialogues, efforts and collaboration to support the UAE presidency for the success of COP28.
China and the US, with the UAE, will invite countries to attend a Methane and Non-CO2 Greenhouse Gases Summit at COP28, it said.
Emphasizing that the statement is a result of a joint endeavor for a common goal, Wang Yi, a member of the Environmental Protection and Resources Conservation Committee of the National People's Congress, China's top legislature, said he expects the document to play a positive and enabling role in helping COP28 make progress.
Wang also welcomed the two nations' decision to put into operation the Working Group on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s.
In a joint declaration made at COP26 in 2021 in the United Kingdom, the two nations decided to set up the working group as a mechanism that "will meet regularly".
However, the efforts were disrupted because of a controversial visit to the Taiwan region in August last year by Nancy Pelosi, then speaker of the US House of Representatives, after which China halted its climate talks with the US.
The statement on Wednesday said that the working group will focus on areas including energy transition, methane, circular economy and resource efficiency, low-carbon and sustainable provinces, states and cities, and deforestation, as well as any further topics that are agreed upon.
The working group is co-led by the two nations' special envoys on climate change, according to the statement.
The working group's going into operation "will lay foundations for regular, institutionalized Sino-US climate communication in the future", Wang said.
Dimitri de Boer, regional director for Asia at the environmental law organization ClientEarth, said that the statement is "pretty rich in content" and represents "substantive progress".
"First of all, it's a great sign that the US and China release a joint statement on climate action, at a time when President Xi Jinping and (US President Joe) Biden are meeting, and ahead of COP28," he said.
It also reaffirms the commitment of the world's largest economies to climate action, he added.
De Boer especially highlighted the importance of the part of the statement regarding subnational cooperation.
China and the US will support climate cooperation among states, provinces and cities in areas including the power, transportation, buildings and waste sectors, the statement said.
Both sides will help subnational governments, enterprises, think tanks and other stakeholders actively participate in the cooperation, it added.
#147
China and the United States will establish a working group whose goal will be to accelerate actions to address climate change during this decade, according to a joint statement released on Wednesday.
The Sunnylands Statement on Enhancing Cooperation to Address the Climate Crisis was made public after a meeting that was held between China's Special Envoy for Climate Change Xie Zhenhua and his US counterpart, John Kerry, in Sunnylands, California, from Nov 4 to 7.
The two sides decided to put into operation the Working Group on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s, which they initially decided to form in 2021, the statement said.
The working group will meet regularly to address the global climate crisis, focusing on enhancing concrete actions that can be taken during this decade, according to the China-US Joint Glasgow Declaration on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s, which was published at the COP26 United Nations climate change conference in Glasgow, Scotland.
The Wednesday statement said the working group will focus on areas including energy transition; low-carbon usage and sustainability provinces, states and cities; and deforestation, among other topics.
Members of the group will exchange information on policies, measures and technologies for controlling and reducing emissions, share their experiences, identify and implement cooperative projects, and evaluate the implementation of the statements and declarations they have made in recent years.
Xie and Kerry will jointly lead the group, the latest statement said.
The statement highlighted Sino-US cooperation ahead of the COP28 UN climate gathering, which will be held in the United Arab Emirates from Nov 30 to Dec 12.
China, the US and the UAE have invited countries to participate at the Methane and Non-CO2 Greenhouse Gases Summit at COP28, it said.
COP28 will mark the conclusion of the first Global Stocktake, a comprehensive assessment of the progress made in achieving the goals of the landmark 2015 Paris Agreement.
"Both countries (China and the US) are committed to working with each other and with other parties to adopt a consensus on the Global Stocktake decision," the statement said.
The decision "should reflect that substantially more ambition and implementation on action and support will be needed to achieve the Paris Agreement's goals, recognizing different national circumstances", it noted.
The statement added that China and the US are committed to holding more talks and strengthening their efforts and collaboration to support the UAE presidency for the success of COP28.
#148
Eurasian Resources Group, a diversified natural resources group based in Luxembourg, which has participated in the China International Import Expo for successively six years, has been seeking more opportunities and exploring trading cooperation during the event held in Shanghai in the past week, said a senior official of the company.
Wang Yun, general manager of ERG China, said as a major cobalt producer in the world, the group will adopt multiple ways to meet the demand of clients with Chinese investors.
"The outlook for cobalt demand is compelling, and it is therefore incumbent on us all to redouble our efforts, and despite the short-term swings of sentiment and all the recent market volatility, increase the much-needed investments in mining and refining of cobalt as the key metal required for the green energy transition," said the company
Wang mentioned that China's electronic vehicle market is developing rapidly, which has brought huge market demand which has led to an increase of the upper stream mining resources.
Under China's green economic development strategy, we believe that the country has great potential to further increase the new energy vehicle sales, he said.
As well as its size, the Chinese EV sector boasts strong supply chains and high levels of innovation. China's production of clean energy equipment such as wind power and photovoltaic power generation also ranks first in the world, and it accounts for over 70 percent of the global production of polycrystalline silicon, silicon wafers, batteries, and components.
The company expected a stable recovery and sustained growth in the aerospace and medical sectors, which will continue to underpin the metal demand for cobalt globally, said Wang.
#149
Chinese energy giants are seeing global cooperation grow, with several State-owned enterprises reporting a record purchase amount during the ongoing sixth China International Import Expo in Shanghai.
Several centrally administered SOEs, including China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC), China Energy Investment Corp and State Development and Investment Corp, reported record purchase amounts during the event, as they continued to step up global cooperation in energy fields in recent years.
The country's oil majors, including China National Petroleum Corp (CNPC) and China Petroleum and Chemical Corp (Sinopec), said they are expanding purchase and cooperation deals with foreign enterprises, such as QatarEnergy, Saudi Aramco and Kuwait Petroleum Corp, during the CIIE. CNPC secured purchase agreements with 22 countries and regions worth $17.1 billion while Sinopec signed a 27-year liquefied natural gas supply and purchase agreement with QatarEnergy.
CNOOC said it hit a record this year, with procurement contracts signed during the event covering 16 major categories, including crude oil, natural gas, equipment and oilfield services. The accumulated contract value over the past six years surpassed $60 billion, the company said.
Among these, an agreement was signed with BASF to initiate the first large-scale domestic carbon dioxide conversion to synthetic gas technology, promoting the development of low-carbon technologies and the utilization of offshore natural gas resources, CNOOC said.
Hou Qijun, president of CNPC, called for continuous efforts to strengthen global energy cooperation and exchanges with partners in technological innovation while exploring the potential for green transition and low-carbon cooperation.
An analyst said the record number of purchase agreements highlights the immense market potential and growth opportunities in China's energy sector.
China has been creating more favorable conditions to advance opening-up - a pivotal driving force for central SOEs to engage with global partners and ensure energy security, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
The enterprises remain the main force facilitating the signing of business deals with overseas partners, Luo said.
As China has been stepping up efforts toward its dual carbon goals, many MNCs are eyeing the decarbonization potential in China, he said.
Global mining companies, such as Rio Tinto, vow to continue broadening their cooperation with China beyond trade to exploration, joint ventures and research and development for low-carbon solutions along the steel value chain.
China's green transition offers Rio Tinto a substantial opportunity for further cooperation between the two sides, said Jakob Stausholm, CEO of Rio Tinto, the world's largest iron ore producer, on the sidelines of the ongoing sixth CIIE.
Siemens Energy also showcased several low-carbon products and technologies during this year's event, vowing to "continue to work together with Chinese partners to push forward pragmatic cooperation and explore more frontiers in support of the country's green energy transition and modernization", said Anne-Laure Parrical de Chammard, member of the executive board of Siemens Energy AG.
"I acclaim China's vision and determination to further push forward energy transition through decarbonization, speed up construction of a new energy system, and ensure energy security," she said.
US materials science giant Dow said it is looking to explore potential collaborations and partnerships with Chinese partners to enhance business in the low-carbon sector, leveraging its global resources in combination with local development and service capabilities to provide customized solutions for local customers.
Puay Koon Chia, president of Dow Asia-Pacific, said the green transition and high-quality development in China have brought significant opportunities for Dow, which has further strengthened the company's confidence in the Chinese market.
The company will continue to strengthen its innovation and manufacturing capabilities in the country in the years to come, as China's economic policymakers have assured greater efforts to attract foreign capital, widen market access and ensure a level playing field for both domestic and foreign companies, Chia said.
#150
The 28th United Nations Climate Change Conference, or COP28, needs to produce a clear action plan to keep the global emission reduction phase on track, a regional forum in Jakarta heard.
The Nov 3 forum "Indonesia Towards COP28: Where Our Climate Policies Are Being Brought To?" was organized by the Foreign Policy Community of Indonesia. It was held ahead of the COP28, which is scheduled from Nov 30 to Dec 12 in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates.
Abdulla Salem Obaid Al Dhaheri, UAE's ambassador to ASEAN and Indonesia, said COP28 will use the power of collective action to help meet the 2015 Paris climate target of limiting global warming to 1.5 C.
"When we can act with solidarity, we can overcome even the most intimidating challenges," Al Dhaheri said in his special remarks at the forum.
Al Dhaheri said the UAE has developed comprehensive plans to enhance global climate action based on five directions: accelerate and organize responsible and equitable transition in the energy sector; develop climate finance mechanisms; focus on life and livelihood; protect and restore ecosystems; and forge inclusivity and engagement of all stakeholders. He said 150 heads of state and government, including Indonesian President Joko Widodo, are expected to attend COP28 in Dubai.
Medrilzam, director for environmental affairs at Indonesia's Ministry of National Development Planning, said Indonesia is targeting to hit net-zero emissions by 2060, adding that climate targets are part of the national long-term development plan.
"We strongly stress that our policies for the next 20 years are green economic policies so they will no longer be ordinary policies," he said.
But he said funding is needed for clean energy transition to build a green economy in developing countries like Indonesia. Medrilzam was in Cairo for COP27 in 2022 and cited the promised $100 billion per year funding for climate mitigation programs for vulnerable countries.
The fund was committed jointly by developed countries under the Paris Agreement. "But, almost 80 percent of the $100 billion commitment is actually loans, and their rates are normal. This poses a great challenge, but we must not back down," Medrilzam said.
Marlistya Citraningrum, senior analyst at the Jakarta-based think tank Institute for Essential Services Reform, said that most countries are not willing to finance the early termination of coal-fired power plants.
"For many countries, early retirement of such plants remains a grey issue," she said. Citraningrum added that Indonesia's state-owned power company PLN, which monopolizes electricity distribution, should seriously support the decentralization of renewable power projects.
"There are so many renewable projects on offer (in Indonesia), and hopefully they can be announced in the COP28 to get funding and investment," she said.
Indonesia is the world's largest coal exporter, and roughly 60 percent of its domestic electricity supply is generated by coal plants.
Tata Mustasya, a senior global strategist for climate and energy at Greenpeace Southeast Asia, said that coal and gas production quotas in Indonesia and other countries are continuing to rise despite their commitment to phasing out fossil fuels.
He said efforts are needed to push industrialized nations to tax their oil companies that have global operations. Funds from such sources can be used for green economy projects in developing countries.
#151
Global cooperation, especially among developing economies, should be further strengthened to drive green investment to address climate change and facilitate countries' green transition, said officials and experts attending the sixth Hongqiao International Economic Forum on Sunday.
The forum is an integral part of the sixth China International Import Expo, which opened on Sunday in Shanghai and runs through Friday.
Rebeca Grynspan, secretary-general of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, said guiding investment and trade toward sustainable development "cannot be more urgent".
"The energy transition is an existential issue that will require massive investment. The investment needs are much higher in developing than in developed economies relative to their existing asset bases," she said.
To help developing economies better attain their green goals, Grynspan suggested that developing economies change their perception of the risks implied in investment, elevate their capacity for investment promotion and doing business, and come up with an enabling policy framework. But more important, cooperation should be deepened, because multilateral financial institutions may not be able to provide all the needed liquidity, especially during times of crisis, she said.
Long Guoqiang, vice-president of the Development Research Center of the State Council of China, agreed, saying that green and low-carbon development must be based on stronger international cooperation.
Long said addressing climate change is a global action that requires countries to work together. While adhering to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, developed economies should take the lead in fulfilling their responsibilities and implementing financial and technical support commitments, in order to create the necessary conditions for developing countries to cope with climate change and achieve sustainable development, he added.
Tran Hong Ha, deputy prime minister of Vietnam, said that economic growth should not rely on the competition of natural resources but the use of more green and low-carbon energy, which is especially true amid the multiple challenges that the world is facing.
Manoa Kamikamica, Fiji's deputy prime minister and minister for trade, cooperatives, small and medium enterprises and communications, said that based on Fiji's experience, foreign direct investment can help achieve climate actions by providing capital to invest in renewable energy and green technology.
Ling Ji, vice-minister of commerce and China's deputy international trade representative, said that countries all over the world are more than welcome to seize the opportunities in the green and low-carbon market in China, which is also the world's largest renewable energy market.
As investment bank Goldman Sachs calculates, China's investment in clean energy infrastructure will reach $16 trillion in 2060, before which the country aims to achieve carbon neutrality.
Against that backdrop, China is willing to deepen cooperation with countries around the globe concerning technologies, research and development and production, in order to share the opportunities offered by the massive Chinese market, which will help accelerate the world's energy transition, Ling said.
Zhang Jianping, director of the China Center for Regional Economic Cooperation at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation, said that efforts should also be made to establish additional collaboration mechanisms with countries participating in the Belt and Road Initiative, with the primary objective of advancing trade and investment cooperation.
#152
Singapore can serve as a hub for renewable energy as the city-state can leverage its status as one of the world's biggest commodity trading centers and bunkering ports, analysts said.
Singapore, a signatory of the United Nations' climate pact, has pledged to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. It is targeting to import 4 gigawatts of clean energy by 2035, accounting for 30 percent of the city-state's total electricity supply.
As a small, resource-constrained country, Singapore has to import almost all its energy needs. At the same time, it is exploring a variety of different options, including regional power grids and emerging low-carbon alternatives such as low-carbon hydrogen and carbon capture, utilization and storage, Singapore's National Climate Change Secretariat said.
On Oct 24, Singapore's Energy Market Authority, or EMA, gave tentative approval for plans to import 1.2 GW of wind power from Vietnam. Earlier this year, EMA, has also approved the importation of solar energy from Indonesia and a mix of hydropower, solar and potentially wind power from Cambodia.
EMA's announcements have made Singapore "pivotal" in discussions to build a renewable energy power grid in the Southeast Asian region, said David Broadstock, senior research fellow and energy transition research lead with the National University of Singapore's Sustainable and Green Finance Institute.
He said discussions on a regional power grid among member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations have been ongoing for the past few years, but there were no "right conditions to really take that forward".
But with Singapore's push for renewable energy, Broadstock said it can "play a central role in actually formulating that grid". He said Singapore, with its strong legal and financial institutions, balanced political and business environment and access to funding and capital, makes it an ideal location for regional power exchange.
Chan Siew Hwa, co-director of Nanyang Technological University's Energy Research Institute, said Singapore is a mix of financial, trading and transportation hubs and this is why it can facilitate the import and export of energy around the region.
Singapore is "not working alone". "We want to work with our neighbors to strengthen the entire ASEAN position in the world. If Singapore can become a hub, certainly that you will benefit ASEAN as a whole," Chan said.
Victor Nian, co-founder and CEO of the think tank Centre for Strategic Energy and Resources, said despite its limited land space, Singapore could potentially become one of Asia's hubs for renewable energy as the country has always been open to innovative solutions.
He said Singapore is a strategic place for companies and startups to pilot new technologies and prove new ideas in renewables. These companies can venture into neighboring countries to expand their businesses. Nian said there is a need for ASEAN and Singapore to accelerate their efforts in energy transition, while recognizing the practical constraints and geopolitical dynamics in the region.
The 28th UN Climate Change conference, to be held from Nov 30 to Dec 12 in Dubai, has again stressed the urgency of cutting carbon emissions and meeting climate commitments.
#153
As a world leader in renewable energy development, China can help nations in the Global South realize the United Nations' sustainable development goal of achieving energy access for all, a UN official said.
Damilola Ogunbiyi, special representative of the UN secretary-general for Sustainable Energy for All, made the remark in an interview with China Daily after the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, which was held in Beijing from Oct 17 to 18.
Sustainable Energy for All is an international organization that works in partnership with the UN and leaders in governments, the private sector, financial institutions and civil society. It aims to support governments with evidence-driven approaches to energy transition and investment strategies that provide decarbonization opportunities.
Ogunbiyi said there is a "disparity" between Asia and Africa in their progress toward achieving Sustainable Development Goal 7, which calls for access to "affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all" by 2030.
The latest SDG 7 report shows that Asia is making better progress in achieving the goal than Africa. Asia is estimated to have about 69 million people without access to electricity, but in Africa, that number is over 500 million, she said.
There is "a big push" for renewable energy in Asia, and countries such as China and India are making concerted efforts to generate hundreds of gigawatts of green energy every year, Ogunbiyi said. "It makes us really look at Asia as an example of pushing the renewable frontier."
Lauding China's achievements in renewable energy development, Ogunbiyi said that China, with its expertise, can support other developing nations in their energy transition.
"China dominates the market when it comes to renewable energy. I believe over 50 percent of all solar panels, wind (power) equipment, and inverted lithium batteries are made in China," she said, adding that growth of China's manufacturing sector holds the key.
Without access to proper equipment, it is "very hard" to generate renewable energy. "What we're basically trying to do is borrow expertise from China ... and see how we can apply it in other parts of the world," she said.
Ogunbiyi said that some of China's practices can serve as examples for other developing countries. "First, you have to look at your policy and regulatory framework. You have to make sure your framework is inclusive and allows for manufacturing and development," she said. "Then, you have to look at what level of investment you need. And sometimes, you might have to use a part of your GDP and your revenue to develop the sector."
The UN official emphasized the importance of China's capacity building in renewable energy development, saying that the country is primed to provide capacity building and regulatory support to other nations based on what it has already achieved.
"We think it's really, really critical and it will really change the landscape for developing countries if you ... show them how to do it and how to develop their own renewable manufacturing industry," she said.
With progress already seen in Sino-African cooperation on green energy, Ogunbiyi said she looks forward to more collaboration between China and African nations. "We are familiar with a lot of large infrastructure (projects) being done by Chinese companies (in Africa), so moving forward to renewable energy development just seems like a natural step."
Currently, there's more demand than supply of solar energy products, indicating that China can play an even bigger role in pushing global solar energy development. "There will always be a role and a place for Chinese products and Chinese (solar) panels ... as we move toward net zero," she said, adding that it is a shared goal.
On the signing of cooperation agreements on renewable energy development at the BRI forum, Ogunbiyi said she was excited about the turnout of "so many emerging economies that see China as a strong partner moving forward as they develop their green future".
#154
Uranium exploration and development efficiency in China has significantly increased over the past few years, with the incremental resource amount in the past 10 years accounting for one-third of China's total confirmed reserves, said a top company official.
As countries around the world are stepping up green energy transition and striving for carbon neutrality, the demand for uranium, which is used to power nuclear plants, is intensifying. The nuclear fuel supply increase in China has greatly improved the country's energy security, said Chen Junli, president of China Nuclear Uranium Co Ltd, a subsidiary of Chinese nuclear giant China National Nuclear Corporation, during the first International Forum on Natural Uranium Industry held in Beijing on Saturday.
According to the latest assessment of China's uranium resource potential, the country has more than 2.8 million metric tons of natural uranium resources.
As per Chen, China has been actively, safely and orderly developing the nuclear power industry during the past few years, which will create market demand for the natural uranium industry.
Over more than 60 years of development, China's natural uranium industry has come up with a complete industrial chain covering geological exploration, mining, refining, and processing. It has also established a natural uranium supply system that combines domestic development, overseas growth, international trade and strategic reserves, he said.
#155
Eurasian Resources Group, a diversified natural resources group based in Luxembourg, signed an agreement with China's BGRIMM Technology Group, an institute in mineral and material industries worldwide, in relation to a cobalt beneficiation facility, which ERG is building in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, at the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in Beijing.
This production facility is planned to be commissioned by the end of 2024 and cobalt hydroxide should be provided from ERG's DRC-based Metalkol, one of the world's largest producers for the battery industry, and one of the largest suppliers of cobalt to China.
The agreement between the two was signed on October 17th.
"ERG has been attending the BRI Forum every year since its inception, because we know it is where some of the most important decisions for the global industry are made," said Benedikt Sobotka, CEO of ERG. "It is no different this time that ERG's agreement with BGRIMM to build a high-quality cobalt beneficiation facility is much needed for critical mineral mining and processing industry and for the green energy transition."
"It is very exciting to help increase the overall investment in cobalt beneficiation in the DRC. This will also lead to further improvement of infrastructure and bring many benefits for local communities in the country, which is a vital region for metals and mining and a key building block for the cobalt industry," added Sobotka.
ERG has further developed its portfolio of assets both in the DRC and globally to produce high quality materials for the li-ion battery sector.
At Metalkol, ERG's flagship operation, the group has expanded the production capacity ten-fold in the last four years. ERG is also developing its another key asset in the DRC, which has some of the world's largest known copper and cobalt resources.
In this vein, the cobalt beneficiation facility, which ERG is building up with its Chinese partner BGRIMM, provides important addition to its portfolio of assets producing key battery materials as it should deliver high purity cobalt hydroxide tailored for the battery market.
It will further strengthen its position as a strategic supplier of traceable materials for the electric vehicle industry.
China accounted for around two-thirds of global sales of full EVs last year. According to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, 26.86 million vehicles were sold in 2022, with 6.89 million units being EVs. Sales of EVs almost doubled, surging by 93.4 percent year over year, thanks to cheap electricity and favorable government policy in China.
#156
The Ministry of Water Resources has established a global network of partnerships that involves dozens of countries and international organizations, as it strives to promote cooperation on water resources management under the Belt and Road Initiative.
Li Ge, a leading official with the ministry's Department of International Cooperation, Science and Technology, made the remarks in the lead-up to the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation this week.
The ministry has signed 72 bilateral cooperation agreements with 57 countries, and established 32 bilateral cooperation and exchange mechanisms, he said. It has also reached multilateral cooperation treaties with eight international organizations and relevant nations, he added.
Thanks to this progress, "a comprehensive, multilevel, multifaceted global network of partnerships in water resources management" has been formed, Li said.
He said that capacity building was an important part of the ministry's cooperation with countries involved in the initiative.
To date, he said, the ministry has provided training programs for over 5,000 researchers, officials, enterprise executives and diplomats from BRI countries. It has also subsidized more than 200 people to study in China for master's degrees in water resources management.
Institutions affiliated with the ministry have set up technology transfer and capacity building centers in Pakistan, Indonesia, Serbia, Ethiopia and Senegal, he said.
In China, a BRI joint training center for technologies relating to ecological conservation of rivers and lakes and a training base for talents needed to promote BRI cooperation have also been launched, as the ministry strives to build more platforms for international exchanges on water resources management, he added.
Li highlighted fruitful results from the ministry's cooperation with BRI countries, which have significantly benefited local residents.
Institutions affiliated with the ministry have carried out over 100 programs in 42 countries and regions around the globe, including those for dam safety, flood control and rural water supply, Li said. Total investment in these programs had reached roughly 52 billion yuan ($7.1 billion).
In a move to address rural residents' difficulties in gaining access to safe drinking water, for instance, China launched the Lancang-Mekong Sweet Spring Project in Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar, in early 2020, he said. The project aims to explore solutions that can be adapted to different local conditions through technology demonstration projects.
By the end of last year, 66 demonstration projects had been built, which helped ensure safe drinking water for almost 10,000 residents, he said.
Li cited the Dasu Hydropower Project, which China is building in Pakistan, as another example. At its peak, the project will provide 8,000 job opportunities, he said.
After it is completed, it is expected to generate 12 billion kilowatt hours of clean energy every year.
These programs "have not only provided new drivers of economic growth for BRI countries and brought them advanced technologies on water resources management, but also effectively strengthened local infrastructure and improved people's well-being", Li said.
#157
Gavin Newsom, governor of the US state of California, may soon visit Beijing to discuss climate change. If we take him at face value as someone who cares about the environment, and with California being in the vanguard of national if not global efforts to fight global warming, then visiting China is essential.
Although Washington is promoting tech-decoupling and financial de-risking, it's likely that environmental products and services will avoid such restrictions. This means that China and California may have more freedom to increase trade and investment serving environmental needs.
While China-US relations overall may continue to deteriorate, and while bilateral cooperation on the environment fails to gain traction at the national levels, we might instead see advances between Beijing and California, and possibly other US states as well.
China is now the leading producer of green energy and green energy products. Many places I visited recently in Europe featured homes and buildings covered with Chinese solar panels, responding to the energy crisis and the hottest summer on record. While some policymakers dislike depending on China to provide these products, China remains essential for green energy transitions worldwide.
Some Western media have criticized Newsom for his perceived willingness to cooperate with China on the environment, including disparaging China's climate record and commitment to fighting global warming.
In fact, more than a decade ago, China's central government became increasingly attentive to the environment in response to growing public complaints. This led to major reforms that have significantly improved air, water and food quality, and thus significantly improved the quality of life for hundreds of millions of people.
Separately, China also began to accelerate investment in green innovation and development. Initially this was strategic. Due to the oil, coal and automaker lobbies that continue to influence US policymaking, the US was lagging behind. China recognized this as an opportunity to become a global leader.
Furthermore, over the past decade China has become increasingly aware of the challenges associated with climate change. Several scientific studies indicate that China faces the greatest economic risks associated with global warming. This includes too little water in the northwest and too much in other parts of the country, with extreme weather events becoming more frequent and disruptive in both areas.
China also understands that climate change is still getting worse despite international attention. Russia, for example, seems unworried, and some studies indicate that Russia may actually benefit from a warmer world. Meanwhile, the US has been unreliable and perhaps disingenuous: Former president Donald Trump quit the Paris climate agreement, and President Joe Biden has expanded oil production, consolidating the US' position as the world leader in petroleum production.
Consequently, China realizes that confronting climate change is a matter of survival and that it can't count on others to lead. This is why it is aggressively expanding green innovation and development, cleanups and other initiatives that will help it and others survive in the future.
With this in mind, Newsom should check how Hefei, the capital of Anhui province, is restoring wetlands surrounding the city to serve as carbon traps while cleaning up the massive Chaohu Lake, led by a mayor who completed doctoral work related to environmental studies. The lake is being dredged, with toxins pressed into bricks and buried in exhausted coal mines. Meanwhile, the region is experiencing massive investment in green technologies. Some of the most advanced electric vehicle production plants in the world are now in Hefei.
Given the role that agriculture plays in California, Newsom might also talk about food production. One-fourth of China's arable land is terraced. Maintaining terraces is backbreaking work; but the terraced areas of Sichuan, Hunan and Yunnan provinces are essential for Chinese food security. Research suggests that these areas are among the most resistant to climate change. Consequently, many new projects are underway to study and improve the terraces, some at least 2,000 years old and perhaps twice that.
Can California contribute to these studies and help create technological solutions to make terraces more productive and easier to maintain? How might such lessons be shared with other countries that also depend on terraced agriculture? This is one of many topics that could guide increased collaboration, including greater cooperation with California's leading universities and technology companies.
If Newsom stops in Shanghai, he should check out the Suzhou River rehabilitation project. Essentially an open sewer snaking through the city a decade ago, it has been cleaned up and restored as a natural habitat. Fish and water birds have returned, and the city has constructed parklands running the length of the river. Or he can visit nearby Chongming Island, where conservation of a major wetland is the dominant feature, while another part of the island promotes organic farming. Or he can drive south on Donghai Bridge to see a long line of giant windmills turning with the ocean breeze.
But even if he stays in Beijing, he'll see a city transformed with an incredible expansion of green spaces. He'll see that most public transportation, taxis and increasingly personal vehicles are electric.
In short, Newsom has a strategic vision for a greener California, and there's a massive strategic vision for the same at work in China, one that has evolved substantially in recent years but is still greatly misunderstood by many in the West. Newsom could help correct this misunderstanding. Through increased cooperation, he can also help China and California save themselves and others.
#158
Experts expect bigger role of such energy in nation's green transition
Nuclear power will be playing a more prominent role in helping achieve China's carbon neutrality goals, with its proportion in the country's total electricity generation to further climb in the years to come, according to an industry association.
China's nuclear power generation will account for 10 percent of the country's total electricity generation by 2035, said Wang Binghua, head of the nuclear energy public communication committee of the China Nuclear Energy Association, during an event in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, on Monday.
Amid China's ambitious target of achieving carbon neutrality before 2060, the country's installed nuclear power capacity is estimated to reach approximately 400 million kilowatts by then, accounting for around 18 percent of total electricity generation. The country is also expected to maintain a construction pace of six to eight nuclear power units per year in the foreseeable future, he said.
Considering the comprehensive utilization of nuclear energy for purposes including heating and powering vehicles, the carbon reduction contribution of nuclear energy is expected to reach approximately 25 percent by 2060, he added.
Figures released by the association reveal that the cumulative electricity generation of operating nuclear power units nationwide reached 211.89 billion kilowatt-hours during the first half of this year, accounting for 5.08 percent of total national electricity generation.
Compared to coal-fired power generation, it is equivalent to a reduction of 59.64 million metric tons of standard coal burned, a decrease in carbon dioxide emissions by 156.2 million tons, it said.
An analyst said that nuclear power is a more stable and reliable type of clean energy compared with solar and wind power, which are more intermittent due to changing weather conditions.
China, which has become a notable player in the global nuclear power landscape, has been actively developing nuclear power capacity in recent years, contributing to a more diversified energy mix to meet its growing energy needs amid the green energy transition, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
"Nuclear power will have more application scenarios in the years to come apart from power generation, serving as a fundamental power source in the large-scale development of clean energy and playing a key role in boosting the utilization of nuclear power in more energy-intensive sectors, from petrochemicals to steel," he said.
It has so far been applied in heating, seawater desalination and isotope production, as China goes full throttle into its green energy transition, Lin said.
Wang said China has approved the construction of 21 nuclear power units since the beginning of the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) period and nuclear power project construction has also been steadily advancing.
According to the plan, the government aims to have 70 gigawatts of installed nuclear capacity by 2025.
The association said that so far there are 55 nuclear power units in operation on the Chinese mainland, with a total installed capacity of approximately 57 million kW. The country has 24 nuclear power units under construction with a total installed capacity of approximately 27.8 million kW, with the combined total of nuclear power units in operation and under construction in China ranking second in the world.
As a clean, low-carbon and efficient base-load energy source, nuclear power plays an important role in helping achieve China's ambitious goals of a carbon dioxide peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060. It is also an important option for China to secure its energy supply and optimize the energy mix, it said.
The State Council, in a meeting held on July 31, approved six new nuclear power units in Ningde, Fujian province; Shidaowan, Shandong province; and Xudapu, Liaoning province.
CITIC Securities said in a report that the accelerated approval of nuclear power projects will lead to the growth of China's related industrial chain and aid in reducing carbon emissions sooner. It estimates that the value of investments in new nuclear power plants will hit 231 billion yuan ($31.6 billion) by 2025.
#159
The fundamental role of oil and gas in China's energy system will remain prominent in the foreseeable future, with the importance of natural gas continuing to rise, and its primary energy status will not change before 2040, said China National Petroleum Corp.
Responding to the green energy transition worldwide, the company said it would step up natural gas output in the years to come while making good use of its abundant renewable energy resources in its oil and gas fields.
The company will also continue promoting the industrial utilization of hydrogen energy, continuously increasing the scale of geothermal resource development and utilization and accelerating the transformation into a comprehensive 'oil, gas, thermal, electric, and hydrogen' energy company, it said in the 17th annual CNPC Corporate Social Responsibility Report released in Beijing on Thursday.
China's high-quality development offers massive room for energy demand growth in the future, while cooperation in the energy sector with countries and regions participating in the Belt and Road Initiative will also deepen, it said.
The technological revolution represented by digitization and intelligence will also empower traditional industries, creating more opportunities for the integrated development of traditional and new energy sources, said the company.
#160
Thailand will continue to play an active role as the ASEAN Coordinator for Sustainable Development Cooperation in fostering a more sustainable and resilient future, Thai Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin said during the UN General Assembly's high-level week in New York.
He said sustainable development is not only just a policy goal of the Thai government, but is one of the key national priorities to promote a thriving economy. "Thailand supports enhancing multi-stakeholder partnership for SDGs in ASEAN," he noted.
As the halfway point to 2030 approaches, he said there is a need to accelerate our actions to tackle multiple and new challenges such as the climate crisis and deepening inequalities while pursuing the SDGs.
"The Global Goals are not mere milestones, but lifelines for millions on this planet," Srettha emphasized and added that there are still a few stumbling blocks, such as financial constraints, technological gaps and social disparities to ASEAN countries.
"So, regional and international cooperation that forms the bedrock of effective multilateralism is the guiding light. ASEAN's collective efforts are vital to transform challenges into opportunities," he said.
He said ASEAN would need a roadmap that guides the pursuit of green growth in a holistic and coordinated manner and Thailand will proactively work with ASEAN colleagues to develop an "ASEAN Green Agenda" as the key pillar of the sustainable economic development.
Also, ASEAN should create a robust foundation for greener industries. "Thailand stands ready to work with ASEAN colleagues and external partners toward initiatives that promote smart agriculture, expedite energy transition, pursue carbon neutrality and invigorate green finance. This will not only sustain ASEAN's resilience but also enhance the quality of life for people in the region," Srettha noted.
As ASEAN is a dynamic region that can provide a platform for innovation and technologies, he believes they will create new opportunities for investments in relevant sectors of green economy.
For example, the ASEAN EV market is expected to grow more than 32 percent in the next five years. With abundant resources and potential, the region can be a hub of sustainable manufacturing and a vital link in the sustainable global supply chain.
In closing, the Prime Minister stressed that only when governments, civil society, academia and private sectors join forces can real change be made, and invited everyone to work with Thailand and ASEAN in advancing sustainable development for it to become a legacy we leave behind for the future generations to follow.
#160
Oil giant establishes JV with BYD to operate its largest such facility globally
Shell Plc's decision to open its largest global electric vehicle charging station in China illustrates the country's burgeoning potential in the EV industry, said industry analysts.
London-based Shell said on Tuesday that the company will set up the EV charging station in South China's Shenzhen, Guangdong province, located about 2.5 kilometers from the Shenzhen Baoan International Airport with 258 public fast-charging points.
It is operated by Shell in Shenzhen and BYD Electric Vehicle Investment Co Ltd as a joint venture, it said.
Shell and BYD signed a strategic cooperation agreement last year to help accelerate the energy transition and improve charging experiences for EV customers. The JV currently operates more than 13,000 charging points in Shenzhen.
The Shell Recharge Shenzhen Airport EV Station served more than 3,300 EVs every day during its trial operation. In addition to EV charging, the station offers services ranging from convenience retailing, coffee, vending machines and a driver lounge.
"The opening of this new site is part of our ongoing commitment to meet the evolving needs of our customers in China," said Istvan Kapitany, Shell's global executive vice-president for mobility.
"We know that EV drivers are looking for a charging experience that is fast, convenient and comfortable and this is reflected in the utilization rates of our sites in China, which are two to three times the local industry average. China is one of the most important growth markets for Shell Mobility and we look forward to offering pleasant mobility experiences to more customers in China in the future."
An analyst said Shell's plan to build the world's largest charging station in Shenzhen is due to the leading position of the metropolis in new energy vehicle development.
Mi Siyi, an analyst at BloombergNEF, said Shenzhen is leading in the development of NEVs worldwide, with a significant portion of private car sales being EVs and comprehensive electrification of ride-sharing and public transportation, particularly buses.
BloombergNEF said ride-hailing vehicles in Shenzhen are largely electrified and the market share of private EVs is over 40 percent. Meanwhile, the local NEV and charging station industry chain is well-developed.
"While it might take a relatively long time for sites of this scale to achieve a break-even point on their own, the region's high demand growth will help increase utilization rates," she said.
"Traditional oil and gas companies like Shell and BP in Europe have been leaning towards investing in clean energy and related services, such as charging. This is a 'clean electron' route, where oil and gas companies investing in electric charging and battery swapping have a natural advantage in asset management, operations, and combining retail and advertising businesses."
"Collaborating with car manufacturers and transportation companies can compensate for their shortcomings in EV management and platform traffic," she added.
Through JVs and wholly owned enterprises, Shell operates a retail network of around 2,800 mobility locations, including around 2,000 fuel stations and 800 stand-alone EV stations, with an EV charging network of 25,000 public charging points in operation in China, it said.
While the number of EVs grows rapidly, Shell vows to step up efforts and remain committed to meeting the different energy and mobility needs of drivers in China.
The company currently has over 40,000 public charging points globally at service stations, mobility hubs, on streets and at destinations like supermarkets, and expects to have around 200,000 by 2030, it said.
Shell said its core businesses have grown considerably in China in recent years, including the Changbei onshore gas project in Shaanxi province, developed in collaboration with China National Petroleum Corp.
Additionally, the company works with CNPC and China National Offshore Oil Corp to develop onshore and offshore oil and gas resources in China and overseas while also being a leading supplier of liquefied natural gas in China.
#161
The European Investment Bank will provide 200 million euros ($214 million) to help Europe's largest developer, owner, and manager of industrial and logistics properties, CTP, roll out a huge program of solar panel installations across its business parks.
The money will ensure the company helps accelerate the European Union's green energy transition, strengthen its power supply, and boost climate action, said the bank, which is the EU's development bank.
The funding will be made under the auspices of REPowerEU, an initiative the bloc has developed to oversee the end of its dependence on imported fossil fuels.
Richard Wilkinson, group chief financial officer at CTP, said: "The backing of the EIB is testament to the robust business strategy we have in place to deliver on the large-scale installation of solar photovoltaics across our portfolio, and allows us to obtain long-term unsecured financing on attractive conditions. Sustainable financing is the way forward, and we are proud to add the EIB as a new financial partner in this."
CTP has a portfolio of 10.9 million square meters of gross lettable area throughout Central and Eastern Europe. The company has also recently begun to build up a presence in Western Europe, within Austria, Germany, and the Netherlands.
As it begins installing solar panels throughout its business parks, the enterprise has set up an energy company that will oversee the handling of power generated from the rooftops of its many properties.
CTP said it plans to double its portfolio by the end of the decade and create energy-independent industrial parks that will generate the power they use. Excess energy, it said, will be added to local grids, to power neighboring communities.
"CTP has long been a pioneer in the development of sustainable industrial and logistics space, and we are now applying the same long-term vision and ambition to renewable energy," said Peter Ceresnik, chief operating officer at CTP.
"This EIB financing will accelerate our plans to maximize the solar potential of our portfolio and help us meet our medium-term goal of installing 400 megawatts of peak power by 2026. It will also help us achieve our longer-term vision for our parks to become energy-positive."
Lilyana Pavlova, a vice-president at EIB, said the investment the bank is making is part of the EU's drive to tap into the enormous potential for renewable energy across Central and Eastern Europe. "With loans like the one to CTP, we help countries in the region to break away from fossil fuels, decrease their dependency on energy imports and ultimately bring down electricity prices for everybody's benefit," she said. "It's a transition that makes economic and social sense."
#162
Not many might know, but Chinese energy companies, armed with unparalleled expertise in technologies and sophisticated equipment, have been expanding their green presence on the global stage in recent years.
Their impact ranges from the Belo Monte power transmission projects - the first "power express" in South America that has solved local power shortage - built by State Grid Corp of China, to the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant in Pakistan, which uses Hualong One, China's third-generation nuclear power technology with full intellectual property rights.
Ever since China ceased building coal-fired power projects overseas in 2021, the green trend has accelerated, with the country's major power companies making active adjustments, shifting their focus to green investments.
Many domestic energy and power companies are increasingly focusing on renewable energy projects such as solar and wind power globally, with the number of new energy projects invested by Chinese power companies last year rising nearly 56 percent year-on-year, covering regions such as Southeast Asia, Europe, Oceania and Latin America, according to the China Electricity Council.
The Belt and Road Initiative has been playing a significant role in driving the green trend of Chinese power companies in the global market of late, it said.
The conclusion is echoed by the China Electric Power Planning &Engineering Institute, saying energy cooperation accounts for around 40 percent of the total investment in countries and regions participating in the BRI, while the power sector itself accounts for half of the energy investment.
This has not only promoted the sharing and exchange of clean energy resources, but supported the development and utilization of renewable energy on a regional scale.
As I see it, Chinese companies are already playing a key role, injecting strong momentum into local economic and social sustainable development. They, however, are still at the middle and lower segments of the international industrial chain, with relatively low overall project profit.
The complex and time-consuming approval processes, together with the financial institutions' financing models, which lack flexibility and thus result in relatively high financing costs and red tape, are not suitable for the highly competitive market environment, leading to a gap between their practices and those of international counterparts in the industry.
As countries around the world are accelerating their green energy transition while stepping up efforts to ensure domestic energy security and expand their power investment scale, it is necessary for China to further optimize its policy, improve international competitiveness, adjust and improve the financial support system, and create a diversified financial support model.
Some of the State-owned enterprises and private companies are already strengthening cooperation in energy technology innovation and transfer of results, to better exploit the country's comprehensive advantages in technology, capital, talent and equipment.
#163
The Chinese mainland already has the conditions required to deliver green electricity to Taiwan on a large scale and is willing to strengthen energy cooperation across the Taiwan Strait, an official said Thursday.
The scale of hydropower, wind power and photovoltaic power generation in the mainland has ranked first in the world for many years, while the mainland also has the world's most advanced wind and photovoltaic power production capacity and long-distance power transmission and transformation capacity, said Cong Liang, deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission, at a press conference.
In particular, clean energy is developing rapidly in Fujian province, he said, noting that the shoals of the outer beaches of southern Fujian are suitable for the development of offshore wind power, and have the conditions necessary for large-scale transmission of green electricity to Taiwan.
The mainland is willing to strengthen cross-Strait energy cooperation and jointly promote green energy transition with Taiwan, Cong said.
#164
China is playing an increasingly important role in the global energy transition, not only making significant strides in energy storage and grid development but also optimizing user-side electricity demand mechanisms, an expert said.
Roberto Bocca, head of energy and materials at the World Economic Forum and a member of the WEF executive committee, said during a recent exclusive interview with China Daily that China has made significant contributions to global renewable development.
Bocca said China has played a remarkable role in expanding production scale and advancing equipment manufacturing technologies in the renewable energy sector over the past few decades. These efforts have resulted in a substantial reduction in the cost of solar and wind facilities, ultimately increasing access to affordable electricity worldwide.
"This development benefits not only China, but the entire global community. There are immense opportunities for companies to continue innovating, advance technologies further and enhance production efficiency in the renewable energy field," he said.
Data from the National Energy Administration (NEA) reveals promising progress in China's renewable energy sector. Non-fossil energy consumption in the country increased from 9.7 percent in 2012 to 17.5 percent last year. The NEA highlighted that China leads the world in energy efficiency growth, with an annual consumption growth rate of less than 3 percent, contributing to over 6 percent in economic growth on average.
The country now boasts the world's largest electricity supply system and clean power generation system, ranking first globally in hydro power, wind power, photovoltaic, biomass power and under-construction nuclear power, according to the NEA.
As of June, the cumulative installed power capacity reached 2.71 billion kilowatts, with renewable energy capacity surpassing coal power, growing approximately threefold in the past decade and standing at 1.32 billion kW.
#165
Countries need to recognize the difficulties and challenges in tackling climate change problems and avoid being overly optimistic of achieving the net-zero goal despite the acceleration of green technology adoption, according to a report issued by the Boao Forum for Asia Academy on Thursday.
The report identified eight major issues facing the net-zero goal, such as the selection of mechanism and path, major challenges and difficulties, behavior of businesses and consumers, and the prospect of green technology and its investment and finance.
Countries can rely on three main routes, which are self-awareness, administrative planning and market mechanism, to address climate change challenges and achieve net-zero goal, the report said.
The purpose of launching the report is to promote discussions on China and Asia's efforts to achieve carbon reduction and neutrality goals and to contribute opinions for the upcoming 2023 Climate Ambition Summit in New York and the 28th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP28) to be held in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates later this year, said Li Baodong, secretary-general of the Boao Forum for Asia, at a news conference in Beijing.
"Solving the climate problem is a complex and systematic project, and we are far from being able to rely on commitments and government rules, and it requires a lot of capital investment and technology research and development as basic support," Li said.
In recent years, the Boao Forum for Asia has been focusing on how to achieve green and low-carbon transformation, and has conducted extensive discussions through annual meetings and roundtables to generate ideas and build consensus, according to Li.
"The Boao Forum for Asia will continue to promote the sharing of carbon neutrality experience inside and outside Asia as well as continue to explore broader cooperation space," he said.
By 2050, the energy sector with the highest carbon emissions will still not be completely decarbonized. The world is projected to emit approximately 22 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide, according to the report.
The report said it is essential to avoid being overly optimistic due to the acceleration of green technology adoption. From 2021 to 2025, the global energy transition will require an annual investment of $2.4 trillion, which accounts for 70 percent of the total transition investments, according to the report.
Additionally, the challenges of safeguarding energy security and stability need to be tackled. And there are still various fundamental tasks to be done concerning measurement, transparency, rating and ensuring integrity, the report said.
#166
China's cumulative installed capacity of renewable energy has reached 1.32 billion kilowatts as of the first half of this year, exceeding that of coal power for the first time, according to the National Energy Administration.
Over the past decade, China has continuously improved its energy consumption structure and increased energy efficiency. The country's share of non-fossil energy consumption has increased from 9.7 percent in 2012 to 17.5 percent in 2022, Zhang Jianhua, head of the administration, said at the 2023 International Forum on Energy Transition, held in Suzhou, East China's Jiangsu province on Sept 5-7.
China has built the world's largest systems for both electricity supply and clean power generation and has held the world's top position for many years in terms of the scale of hydropower, wind power, photovoltaic power, biomass power generation, and under-construction nuclear power.
The forum is jointly organized by the administration, the Jiangsu provincial people's government, and the International Renewable Energy Agency. It has brought together over 2,000 participants, including government officials, industry insiders, and business leaders from home and abroad, to elaborate on global energy transition and sustainable development.
#167
Experts call for stronger international efforts to advance decarbonization
The global community should deepen international cooperation to advance the global green energy transition focusing on decarbonization and digitalization, officials and experts said at a forum on Wednesday.
Speaking at the 2023 International Forum on Energy Transition in Suzhou, Jiangsu province, Zhang Jianhua, head of the National Energy Administration, said, "Further efforts are called for to strengthen global collaboration in clean and efficient energy use, with a focus on promoting clean, low-carbon transformations in energy-intensive industries like manufacturing, construction and transportation, while propelling the digitalization and decarbonization of energy systems."
Zhang said: "China will further improve the investment and financing environment, ensuring the security, stability and sustainability of supply chains in the clean energy industry. This involves expanding the scale of renewable energy sources such as solar and wind power and driving continuous cost reductions in renewable energy."
He said China's overseas investments in non-fossil energy have surpassed those in fossil fuels. Zhang emphasized that China's pursuit of clean, low-carbon, secure and efficient energy systems has injected great momentum into global energy transformation and security.
Data from the NEA showed that the share of non-fossil energy consumption increased from 9.7 percent in 2012 to 17.5 percent in China last year. Zhang said China has led the world in energy efficiency growth, with a consumption growth rate of less than 3 percent annually, contributing to over 6 percent in economic growth on average.
To date, China has established the world's largest electricity supply system and clean power generation system, with hydropower, wind power, photovoltaics, biomass power and under-construction nuclear power all ranking first globally, according to the NEA.
As of June, the cumulative installed power capacity stood at 2.71 billion kilowatts, with the installed capacity of renewable energy reaching 1.32 billion kW, surpassing coal power and growing approximately threefold in a decade.
"China has made unwavering efforts to develop new energies and reduce the use of fossil fuels. The country has made great contributions to the world's green transition in the way that its energy companies continue to work to reduce the cost of solar, wind and hydropower, allowing more global users to buy solar panels and other facilities at a very low cost, giving more people access to affordable electricity," said Francesco La Camera, director-general of the International Renewable Energy Agency.
Borge Brende, president of the World Economic Forum, said China was among the major economies to have made positive progress in transitioning energy systems.
According to Brende, global investment in clean energy reached a record $1.6 trillion in 2022, up 15 percent from the year before. The global renewable capacity additions are set to soar this year by 107 gigawatts - the largest increase ever.
Shawn Qu, chairman and CEO of Canadian Solar headquartered in Suzhou, said that 10 years from now, photovoltaic battery efficiency is likely to rise from over 25 percent to 35 percent, supported by technological advancement, and the industry will contribute more to the global green energy transition with lower material consumption and less land use.
"Closer ties are expected on a global scale to battle risks brought up by climate change. Canadian Solar has provided around 102 GW of solar modules for over 160 countries and regions, and has PV and power storage station projects across more than 20 countries and regions, with the number of reserved projects ranking tops globally," Qu said.
"China's development of green energy is on a fast track and Covestro has been buying large amounts of green power in the country. We were the number one buyer of green power in Shanghai in 2022.Now we are interested in seeking more partners and suppliers in the fields of solar, wind and hydropower," said Ferdinand Rammrath, chief procurement officer of Covestro AG.
"China has been a major market for Covestro and will continue to be extremely important for the company in the future. Our largest production site is located in Shanghai," Rammrath said.
#168
Officials and global experts highlighted the increasingly prominent role of China in championing solutions to challenges troubling the Global South.
On Tuesday, the Center for International Knowledge on Development, a Beijing-based think tank, published the Global Development Report 2023, which underlined challenges facing humanity such as the COVID-19 pandemic, the crisis in Ukraine, high inflation, debt risks, and the food and energy crisis.
Long Guoqiang, deputy head of the State Council Research Center, said the publishing of the report is part of broader steps from Beijing to bring steer global development back on track, unite efforts to bridge the global development deficit, and accelerate the implementation of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda.
The report specifically examines critical and pressing global development issues in seven areas, including poverty reduction, food security, public health, development financing, energy transition, industrialization and digitalization.
Jorgen Randers, a professor with the department of law and governance at BI Norwegian Business School, said China should be commended with having done a fabulous job over the last 40 years in increasing the well-being of the Chinese population.
He said now it is important for China to teach other nations to repeat this fabulous feat in a 40-year period.
It is also important for China to show that it is possible to shift from the production of consumer goods and services to the production of well-being for the majority, he said.
As for green transitioning, he said China has the economic muscle and the will to show that green transitioning can be done, thereby being an example for the rest of the world.
Beijing has set up a Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund with total funding of $4 billion (29.2 billion yuan), and the Chinese financial institutions will soon set up a special $10-billion fund dedicated to the implementation of the Global Development Initiative.
Woo Wing Thye, a research professor from Sunway University in Malaysia, said the Belt and Road Initiative has emerged as a key initiative to build up the infrastructure and reduce the costs of transportation for countries in the Global South.
Going forward, it is important for the BRI to shift greater focus to help developing nations upscale their human capital and build up their healthcare sector, he said.
#169
Chinese photovoltaic manufacturing enterprise GCL Technology Holdings Ltd said the company is in advanced talks with Saudi Arabia about opening its first overseas factory as China aims to extend its energy ties beyond fossil fuels.
The company, the world's second-largest manufacturer of polysilicon, a key component in solar panels, said it is looking to build a plant in the Middle Eastern nation that would produce 120,000 metric tons of green hydrogen per year.
The project will kick off as early as 2025, said the company's Joint CEO Lan Tianshi.
Saudi Arabia has mature infrastructure and experience in manufacturing, while the country's abundant sunlight could also support its transition from an oil giant to a solar energy producer, he said.
An analyst said the company's interest is in accordance with the ever-growing energy cooperation between the two countries after China's top leadership visited Riyadh in December.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said Chinese solar companies' overseas business expansion is mutually beneficial for both China and Saudi Arabia.
While contributing to global carbon emissions reduction, Chinese solar companies' overseas expansion also widens their presence on the global stage, consolidating their position as industry leaders, he said.
While Saudi Arabia is rich in oil and gas resources, it is also stepping up efforts in green energy transition in recent years and the region's vast desert areas could facilitate its photovoltaic power generation industry, he said.
"By setting up new infrastructure in Saudi Arabia, GCL will also tap into the country's large potential market for a bigger market share, as the country is very focused on energy transition and in need of technological assistance from leading solar companies."
Luo added that declining photovoltaic prices, prompted by technological advances, are also delivering opportunities for the expansion of Chinese solar companies, who are seeking opportunities abroad due to fierce competition in the domestic market.
Lower photovoltaic prices have also boosted demand both in China and elsewhere. Asia's largest economy is set to install a record capacity this year of as much as 140 gigawatts, said the China Photovoltaic Industry Association.
Lan said the company has considered potential expansion into Mexico to serve the North American market.
#170
China's massive market is expected to provide substantial opportunities for major chemical corporations like SABIC amid its green energy transition, the company's top executive said.
The potential of the Chinese economy - the main driver of global demand for industrial chemicals - has encouraged the company to accelerate its presence here and it is willing to expand investments, from utilizing renewable energy to petrochemical plants, in the country, Abdulrahman Al-Fageeh, CEO of SABIC, told China Daily in an exclusive interview.
"SABIC will continue to invest in the Chinese market, especially in innovation and technological development, a crucial strategic market for SABIC and one of the keystones underpinning our global growth, as we have been doing during the past nearly four decades," Al-Fageeh said.
"We strive to foster collaboration throughout the entire value chain to drive the growth of major industries and segments in China, including automotive, healthcare, electrical and electronics, as we believe the country will remain the main driver of global demand for chemicals," he added.
SABIC, he said, will expand its investment in Fujian province with Fujian Energy Petrochemical Group to build and operate a world-class mega petrochemical complex in Gulei Petrochemical Industry Park, as "there will be more demand in the market to stimulate the production of the chemical side once services return to normal".
The company has also collaborated with China Petroleum & Chemical Corp, or Sinopec, and established a joint venture in Tianjin for a world-class mega petrochemical complex. The company plans to add a new polycarbonate plant with an annual designed capacity of 260 kilotons this year.
As renewable energy has been developing at a rapid pace in China in recent years, SABIC said it had directed its research and development and investment toward utilizing renewable energy, with a wide product portfolio of innovative solutions, ranging from polyolefin to engineering thermoplastics for photovoltaic solar applications.
"As for the China market, we are now actively working with our partners here to investigate the utilization of renewable energy. As soon as it is available and tested competitive, we will further promote it in China to support its sustainable development and decarbonization goals," he said.
According to the State Grid Energy Research Institute, new energy generation capacity has grown rapidly in China and has gradually become the main source of newly added generation capacity in the country.
The national cumulative installed capacity of new energy surpassed 700 million kilowatts by the end of 2022, and the electricity generation exceeded 1 trillion kilowatt-hours for the first time last year.
The utilization rate of new energy has remained consistently above 95 percent for five consecutive years since 2018, comparable to levels seen in developed countries like Germany, it said.
According to Al-Fageeh, SABIC has been actively increasing the application of renewable energy in China to further facilitate the nation's transition toward sustainable development through an innovation-driven strategy, which is also a key part of SABIC's global road map to carbon neutrality.
The company has also been exploring technology options for carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) applications in the country and is happy to explore any kind of CCUS opportunity in this field with its partners in China, he said.
Currently, SABIC is working with the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation on CCUS studies to seek more technology options for CCUS applications in China. The company is also talking to local partners to identify new CCUS technologies and explore potential opportunities together.
SABIC currently operates the world's largest carbon dioxide capture plant in Jubail, Saudi Arabia. The unit can capture 500,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide per year, before purifying and developing it.
"We are also happy to explore any kind of opportunity in this field with our partners in China," Al-Fageeh said.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said SABIC's commitment confirms China's massive potential in the decarbonization sector.
The country has attracted more international players in various sectors, from mining to petrochemicals, and they are thinking of expanding their businesses even as they become sustainable enterprises over the long run, Luo said.
#170
China has made significant strides and achieved substantial breakthroughs in the field of nuclear science and technology over the past five years, a top company executive said on Tuesday.
The country, which is becoming a notable player in the global nuclear landscape, has been actively developing nuclear power capacity, which is contributing to a more diversified energy mix that will help meet its growing energy needs while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions, said Yu Jianfeng, chairman of China National Nuclear Corp.
Following years of investment in research and development across various areas of nuclear science, China has mastered the core technologies of third-generation nuclear reactors, and it has gone from a novice to expert level in the nuclear energy sector, Yu said at a news conference in Beijing.
The country has become an international supplier of nuclear technology and equipment, and is ranked among the top players, he said. China is now exporting its domestically developed reactors and associated technologies, especially to countries and regions participating in the Belt and Road Initiative. This demonstrates the nation's confidence in its nuclear capabilities and desire to become a global player in the nuclear industry, Yu said.
CNNC kicked off construction of Unit 5 of the Chashma Nuclear Power Plant in Pakistan last month, the third nuclear power unit using Hualong One, a homegrown third-generation nuclear power technology that China has exported to Pakistan, the company said. This is the seventh nuclear power unit exported to Pakistan, it added.
Yu said nuclear power is expected to be applied in more sectors going forward.
China has already increased the use of nuclear power for heating - for residential and industrial units - in recent years to maintain steady energy supply. Application of nuclear technology in fields like medicine and industry has also been accelerating, he said.
According to the China Nuclear Energy Association, China continues to lead the world in the number of under-construction nuclear power units, with 24 such plants with a total planned installed capacity of 26.81 gigawatts.
The country has so far put into operation 54 commercial nuclear power units with a total installed capacity of 56.82 GW, ranking third worldwide after the United States and France.
It has also maintained an excellent nuclear safety record, ranking among the highest in terms of nuclear power safety operational indicators globally, it said.
According to China's 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25), the government is planning to have 70 GW of installed nuclear capacity by 2025.
The State Council in a meeting held on July 31 granted approval to six new nuclear power units in Ningde, Fujian province; Shidaowan, Shandong province; and Xudapu, Liaoning province.
China's nuclear sector has been progressing steadily with higher attention paid to independent research and manufacturing, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
CITIC Securities said that the accelerated approval of nuclear power projects will lead to the growth of China's related industry chain, aiding the country's goal of reducing carbon emissions sooner.
It estimates that the value of investments in new nuclear power plants will hit 231 billion yuan ($31.80 billion) by 2025.
As China is going through a green energy transition, nuclear power is expected to play a greater role within the renewable power mix, said Gu Jun, general manager of CNNC.
#171
In an unbounded desert some 50 kilometers from downtown Abu Dhabi, there is nothing but neatly arranged rows of solar panels, surrounded by lattice towers, with some sophisticated utilities at the far end of the infinite environment, as well as undulating dunes.
You are left stunned by the isolation, the immensity of Mother Nature, amid the sprawling 21-square-kilometer stretch of terra firma.
However, unlike barren deserts, this vast land, equivalent to 2,800 soccer fields in area and more than an hour's drive from the United Arab Emirates capital, radiates vitality.
The 2-gigawatt Al Dhafra PV (photovoltaic) solar power plant - the largest single-site photovoltaic power plant in the world - lights up about 160,000 households with a constant supply of clean electricity. The brains behind this mammoth venture are 5,000 Chinese and UAE engineers assigned to the Belt and Road Initiative - a global infrastructure development strategy launched by China in 2013 to link up Asia with Africa and Europe to drive trade and economic growth. Venturing into the scorching summer heat of up to 43 C takes guts. Just a few minutes' exposure to the uncompromising ultraviolet rays and heat could set you on fire and give you vertigo. The sun's glare is so piercing that, without sunglasses, your eyes would sting and run dry.
It was a real baptism of fire that a PV solar project of such gargantuan magnitude and significance was completed amid the COVID-19 pandemic and the heat.
Why is the UAE - an energy giant with its vast fossil fuel reserves a rich seam to mine - so bent on undertaking an energy transition to become a global clean energy powerhouse?
There is a real need for change, contends Abdulaziz Alobaidli, chief operating officer of Masdar - the UAE's flagship renewable energy company and a major developer of the Al Dhafra solar power project. The UAE has benefited from the underlying "wisdom of its leadership", which has been very dynamic in "thinking about the future", says Alobaidli.
"We need to diversify our economy and energy resources to enhance our energy security," he says, as relying on a single source of energy is just too risky. Therefore, decarbonization is a "necessity" rather than a "luxury" or "privilege". "We're committed to decarbonizing the value chain of all processes relating to energy, upstream and downstream."
Most importantly, says Alobaidli, since climate change is a global issue, the UAE feels compelled to share its knowledge and solutions with the world to support collective efforts to reach net zero by 2050. This is a tenet of the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change.
Wang Jinwei, general manager of the Abu Dhabi branch of Beijing-based China Machinery Engineering Corporation Group, explains that fossil fuels, while being a carbon-intensive resource for electricity, are subject to market fluctuations and don't promise a secure supply of electricity. Hence, the "Clean Energy Strategic Target 2035", initiated by Abu Dhabi's Department of Energy, envisions 60 percent of the region's electricity being generated from clean and renewable sources by 2035. The projection is the first legally binding clean and renewable energy target in the Middle East, and integral to Abu Dhabi's energy transition process.
Resolved to do its part for the "Green Silk Road", CMEC secured the $1 billion engineering, procurement and construction contract to build the 2GW Al Dhafra solar photovoltaic project in Abu Dhabi in October 2022.
The world's largest single-site solar photovoltaic plant, now in full operation, is expected to help Abu Dhabi slash its annual carbon emissions by 2.4 million metric tons, raising the proportion of clean energy in the UAE's total energy mix to more than 13 percent. This is equivalent to removing about 470,000 cars from the roads.
This huge swathe of desert is not distant nor silent. Apart from on-site workers clad in florescent vests, protective high-top caps, and thick and rubber-soled boots, the relative serenity is punctuated from time to time by creaks and squeals.
Scratching our heads to try and figure out where these sounds came from, Wang tells us: "They're from the solar modules (panels) rotating in sync with the sun radiance shifts throughout the day. Capturing the largest possible amount of sunlight ensures the maximum generation of electricity. No solar energy should be wasted." So, the solar panels come into varying slopes throughout the day, the steepest being at dusk and dawn, he says.
While the panels' movement was too subtle to detect, the unrelenting noises are a tell-tale sign of the desert's vigor and tirelessness in lavishing the city with a clean life.
When the panels lie flat peacefully, face up, at around 7 pm each day, the panel cleaning routine commences. The film of sand collected on the panels' surface would obstruct its absorption of rays and subsequent electricity generation, explains Wang. So, dusting off the panels is important.
While water is the conventional answer to having the panels cleaned, it doesn't apply in Abu Dhabi due to the city's meager rainfall. "Thus, we come up with cleaning robots, an automatic substitute, after brainstorming with locals who're more acquainted with the local natural conditions," says Wang.
Unfazed and unaffected by the onslaught of COVID-19, the Al Dhafra solar power project testifies to China's expertise and competence. It reinforces how the country's solar manufacturing business is supporting regions involved in the Belt and Road Initiative to meet their zero-carbon targets. "What I'm saying is no more perception. It's reality," says Alobaidli.
The solar project has put the prime China-UAE duet on the Belt and Road map with many records broken in the process.
Against all odds during the pandemic, with global supply chains thrown into disarray, CMEC managed to complete the Al Dhafra project on time. "We were installing almost 20 megawatts daily, setting a record. When we started our journey with renewable energy, specifically solar energy in 2010, it took us one year to build a 10-megawatt plant here in Masdar city. In the large-scale Al Dhafra PV project, thanks to experienced contractors such as CMEC, we were able to install 20 megawatts every day," recalls Alobaidli.
The project involved procuring four million bifacial solar PV modules from the Chinese mainland to be mounted on 30,000 single-axis sun trackers. "More than 10,000 containers had to be used to ship the modules despite the erratic logistics network. It was challenging," reminisces Wang. The pandemic-induced disruption was just a tip of the iceberg in a Herculean task. The complex and varied topography across the sweeping desert posed a plethora of engineering hurdles, he says.
The site's proximity to the sea also means the underground soil is highly saline and alkaline. To protect the piles, whose ends go deep into the ground, from erosion, concrete had to be poured into the hole during piling works.
The high water level to the northeast would cause the soil to collapse when piling and sunken soil choked the burrowed holes. A solution eventually surfaced - inserting a plastic tube to anchor the soil before burrowing.
Loose soil in the dune-dominated southeastern region was a knotty problem until it was displaced and substituted with concrete to get a more stable structure.
Building the 400 kilovolts GIS (gas-insulated switchgear) substation was also demanding. "It had to be put under the scrutiny of AbuDhabiTransmission and Despatch Company, which adheres to (one of the most) rigorous, hard and fast standards," says Wang.
The rigorous vetting and approval process was a problem too, slowing down construction. "But we still made it within 22 months, which would have been 35 months under the local timeline. It had registered 14 million safety work hours by early June," he says.
The plant serves as a "blueprint" for Abu Dhabi's upcoming projects of the same size and magnitude, says Alobaidli.
Beyond its environmental merits, the project has turned Abu Dhabi's labor market into a hubbub, says Alobaidli. "At its peak, we had more than 4,000 workers from various countries residing in the UAE. A lot of local subcontractors benefited from the project and offered full-time jobs for the people."
'Reciprocal relationship'
If you find the solar plant too remote in your life as its impact may not be immediately felt, you may want to go on a tour of Abu Dhabi, mindful of the charging stations as a fixture of the cityscape. The city has set concrete decarbonizing transformation strategies for its transportation system. "With our partners, we look to ensure an entire zero emission fleet of taxies by 2040," declares Abdulla Al Marzouqi, director-general of Abu Dhabi's Integrated Transport Centre, a subsidiary of the Department of Municipalities and Transport.
Shenzhen, which Al Marzouqi hails as one of the few successful stories of green public transport transformation, will be the key model for the UAE to take a leaf from. Shenzhen Bus Group is the first and largest pure electric transport operator with about 10,000 electric vehicles, and "they will provide us with support and guidance - from drafting electric transport policies to assessing electric transport operational efficiency," he says.
Chinese mainland companies in the new energy sector are taking intellectual and technical assets, as well as technological standards, overseas today - "from upstream, like solar energy production and energy storage services, to downstream, where EV companies are coming to the Middle East," says Hallie Liao, general manager of KMB International Inc, parent company of Shenzhen Bus Group.
In the exhausting battle with climate deterioration, China has gone out of its way liaising with countries and regions involved in the BRI, hoping to haul humanity back from the cusp of possible annihilation by climate change. But the country runs the gauntlet of international naysayers discrediting it for intensifying its grip on the renewable energy chain.
Rumors can be damaging, but they would easily crumble if everyone in the know smashes them and defends the wronged side.
Gathering at an oval table, where an oversized strategy map was unfurled, with a projector flickering overhead, Sharkawi led a crew of engineers, contractors and suppliers, gesticulating, scribbling notes, picking each other's brains in a frenzied discussion. Inspecting the "Road Map", as Sharkawi calls it, and brainstorming feasible fixes when work deviates from its expected course is a daily, weekly and monthly routine, he says. There is a free flow of know-how and transparency of techniques there, without the need to keep knowledge and information to oneself, which Sharkawi appreciates.
All the skills picked up from the project will translate into brownie points glamorizing his resume. "I'll carry it along into my future career, future projects, other companies, developers and owners to help make the planet green."
"As a technology agnostic company, we're open to work with manufacturers, investors, EPC partners from all over the world. We haven't ever been finding ourselves in a difficult situation where we have to work only with Chinese (entities)," clarifies Alobaidli. What drives them to lay a sustained partnership, he says, is when they see the technical and economic value the partner could bring, and the contractor or investor is on the same wavelength, which is a recipe for the collaboration with China.
"China is on the top of clean energy innovation, with its forte being cost-effective manufacturing facilities - high-capacity factories to produce solar panels," says Quentin des Cressonnieres, general manager of Engie Services Kuwait.
In an open-source world, there is little concealment of information and knowledge. "With Chinese contractors and all the others as well, we could maintain a very transparent and reciprocal relationship," he says.
There have always been skeptical noises around "because everyone (from the international community) wants the whole piece of the cake. They don't want to share it with you, but Chinese policies for BRI are all about sharing," argues Professor Man Hau-chung, dean of the Faculty of Engineering at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. "We're helping those developing countries along the Green Silk Road to build infrastructures and develop renewable energies and transport," which are their lifelines, says Man, who envisages a more powerful dynamic in green energy globally.
The crusade for renewable energy and sustainable solutions will be an enduring signature trend of this era worldwide. The Belt and Road, rebranded as the Green Silk Road, pools all the collective wisdom - talents, expertise, leadership, contacts and funds - Man contends.
Hong Kong's high-caliber universities are keenly aware of pivoting their studies and education on the most pressing and zeitgeist challenges, renewable energy and sustainable living included. The Belt and Road Advanced Professional Development Program in Power and Energy, co-launched by PolyU and Xi'an Jiaotong University, State Grid Corporation of China and Hong Kong Electric in 2018, has so far attracted nearly a thousand energy professionals from up to 30 countries and regions, including Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. The five-day technical training, practice exchanges and collaborative innovations unite these global elites in consolidating energy transition and energy security. Hong Kong makes its presence felt on the Green Silk Road through its power of rallying and education, says Man.
Infrastructure projects in the developing countries along the green route are on a mammoth scale, involving prohibitive expenditure. As Hong Kong boasts having the world's freest and most stable currency exchange, the international financial hub is a natural magnet for investment and equity financing, notes Michael Zhang Zhenyu, director of the Hong Kong office of Sinomach - CMEC's parent company.
Zhang said he believes the city's robust legal and financial systems that provide high-level protection for investors in high-risk and high-cost transnational projects, will help BRI projects secure the special administrative region's coveted financial rewards. "In the past five years, our Hong Kong company has helped secure around HK$1.6 billion ($204.5 million) in equity investments for infrastructure projects in the BRI countries, accounting for half of the total financing of BRI projects," he says.
As we dwell on the avalanche of doomsday theorists pontificating about depleting fossil fuels, a future atmosphere choked with carbon emissions, and humanity's submission to fatal plagues, set against today's impenetrable hazy skyline, we can take solace from the desert Abu Dhabi has transformed into a solar energy powerhouse, and that a frisson of clean energy along the Belt and Road Initiative is in the offing. But there is no room for complacency.
#173
Chinese enterprises led by China Gezhouba Group Overseas Investment Co, an overseas investment arm of China Energy Engineering Corp, recently embarked on a transformative journey to Central Asia, amid the strong push globally for green energy transition.
Earlier this month, a freight train carrying solar modules left Xi'an, Shaanxi province, to the construction sites of two upcoming photovoltaic power plants, of 500-megawatt capacity each, in the Bukhara and Kashkadarya regions in Uzbekistan. In the following months and years, more batches of such freight trains will set forth to these destinations to build the groundbreaking 1-gigawatt energy projects.
"The investment and construction of renewable energy projects have played a leading role in transforming Uzbekistan's energy structure and infrastructure," said Jurabek Mirzamahmudov, minister of energy, Uzbekistan, during an event to celebrate the departure of the first freight train.
This endeavor, part of a cooperation outcome after the China-Central Asia Summit in May, marks the first bold leap into new energy investment in the Central Asian region, and one of the results of the Belt and Road Initiative.
The project is estimated to generate 2.4 billion kilowatt-hours of clean electricity and mitigate carbon emissions by about 2.4 million metric tons annually. It will help improve the local power infrastructure and upgrade its energy consumption, said Lin Xiaodan, president of the CEEC unit.
Beyond its green impact, the project is also set to spur socioeconomic development, as it is expected to generate around 1,600 local jobs and inject a projected $140 million in tax revenue, Lin added during the ceremony.
A total of 60 freight train trips will be arranged before the end of next June, bringing over 3,000 photovoltaic modules to the construction sites, the CEEC unit said.
Such a footprint of the centrally administered State-owned enterprise in the Uzbek market is nothing short of profound.
With commitments exceeding $1 billion, spanning green energy, environmentally friendly construction materials, and urban development, the company is eying opportunities from Uzbekistan's surging population and accelerated internal reforms, which are "a fertile ground for investments for the company", Lin said.
Going forward, the company has a blueprint drawn up well through 2025. It has committed to bolster infrastructure investments and pioneer benchmark projects in global novel energy fields, especially in BRI-related markets, such as Kazakhstan, Indonesia and Vietnam, Lin said.
LONGi Green Energy Technology Co, a leading PV company in China that is also taking part in the BRI project, will enhance cooperation with all parties on this project, and seek a bigger role in boosting the new energy transition of the Central Asian markets, said its President Zhong Baoshen.
According to a report by CITIC Securities in July, Chinese infrastructure bidders will embrace more opportunities in BRI regions this year - the 10th anniversary of the initiative - as the release of pent-up demand is gathering pace in the post-COVID-19 era.
Citing demand for infrastructure in BRI-related markets, CITIC Securities said conditions have recovered to pre-COVID-19 levels, and projects that were delayed by the pandemic are also progressing quickly since the beginning of the year.
"Infrastructure companies seeking bigger global presence, especially in Central Asian and Southeast Asian nations, boast diplomatic advantages earned by the nation through its efforts in advancing multilateralism in recent years, for example, the BRI. And with the nation's competitive edge in infrastructure building, major Chinese players in the sector, central SOEs in particular, will stand out from global peers for their solutions and operations," said Long Chaocan, an investment consultant with China Galaxy Securities Co Ltd.
However, the impact of geopolitical tensions is weighing on companies striving for a global presence, he said.
"The ongoing tussle between China and the United States, and the unstable global industrial chain due to geopolitical tensions, must be taken into consideration while making global investment strategy, as there may be invisible obstacles affecting implementation efficiency and investment returns," he added.
#174
Major oilfields ramp up production to serve nation's low-carbon transition
Natural gas consumption in China is expected to rise this year as domestic economic recovery rapidly increases the domestic energy off-take, said experts from industry and policy think tanks.
China's demand for natural gas is expected to rise rapidly over last year, with annual consumption expected to climb at a rate of 5.2 percent to 7 percent to reach 385 billion to 390 billion cubic meters, according to a report by the Economics and Technology Research Institute in July.
City gas and power generation will be the primary drivers of growth, while the commercial sector, transportation and heating demand will also significantly contribute to demand for city gas, said the institute, which is affiliated with the country's largest oil and gas producer and supplier, China National Petroleum Corp.
Natural gas will play a pivotal bridging role in the energy transition in the country and demand will remain robust in the coming years as China vows to ensure sufficient energy supply amid its green energy transition, it said.
The institute expects gas demand in Asia will recover steadily this year, while the global gas market is expected to continue being influenced by the rebalancing of supply and demand in the European market.
China produced 220.1 bcm of natural gas last year, an increase of 6 percent year-on-year, surpassing an annual growth of 10 bcm for the sixth consecutive year. The government aims to keep reliance on domestic natural gas at more than 50 percent in the long term and use natural gas as a peak-shaving tool amid periods of high power demand.
The institute's forecast is in line with that of the National Energy Administration, saying in a report that the supply of natural gas in China is expected to increase mainly due to higher local production and an increased supply of pipeline gas from the China-Russia eastern route. Liquified natural gas (LNG) imports will also resume growth with increased flexibility to adapt to changes in supply and demand within the country, it said.
According to the institute, China has been stepping up natural gas output while accelerating the construction of natural gas infrastructure nationwide, including natural gas pipelines and storage tanks, driven by an overall recovery in the country's economy.
Domestic energy companies, including CNPC, China National Offshore Oil Corp and China Petrochemical Corp, or Sinopec, have stepped up domestic oil and gas exploration and exploitation in recent years to boost output while expanding international oil and gas exploration and trade to secure adequate energy supplies.
Major oilfields nationwide, including Changqing oilfield, China's largest oil and gas field located in Northwest China's Ordos basin - Daqing oilfield in Heilongjiang province and the Tarim oilfield in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, have been stepping up production and supplies to ensure domestic energy security while facilitating the country's low-carbon energy transition.
CNPC said its oil and gas output hit new records in 2022, with natural gas output hitting 145.3 bcm. Natural gas accounted for 52.4 percent of the company's total production measured by oil and gas equivalent, it said.
Sinopec believes natural gas consumption in China will reach 620 bcm per year by 2040 and become the largest fossil energy source in the country by 2050.
China's oil and gas industry provided strong support for domestic economic growth last year despite the severe and complex changes in the international energy situation, said Zhou Xiwei, an economist with the institute's energy strategy research department.
Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF, said against the backdrop of the global energy crisis, it is important for domestic oil and gas companies to step up efforts in upstream exploitation and exploration, while strengthening domestic gas production and long-term contracts, to reduce volatility and maintain price stability.
Domestic gas output will play an even more important role next year as gas imports become increasingly more uncertain and volatile amid European gas shortages, she said. 
#175
Senior officials and observers from around the world have been impressed by China's enterprising diplomatic efforts in recent months in engaging wealthy nations as well as the most vulnerable countries in tackling the increasingly challenging global problem of climate change.
The climate-themed diplomacy, led by President Xi Jinping, illustrates the evolving Chinese solution and the fair, responsible approach sought by Beijing for dealing with the growing deficit of global governance, they said.
With July having been the hottest month ever recorded, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said on July 27 that "the level of fossil fuel profits and climate inaction is unacceptable", and "leaders must lead" with dramatic, immediate climate action to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5 C above preindustrial levels.
At bilateral meetings with visiting foreign leaders and at some major international events last month, Xi said that China understands the severe challenges facing vulnerable nations such as Pacific Island countries, and he vowed further action to ensure that global unity and efforts focusing on climate change do not lose steam.
Speaking with Solomon Islands Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare on July 10, Xi said that China "stands ready to strengthen exchanges and cooperation with island countries in meteorological services, disaster prevention and reduction, clean energy and other fields".
In a meeting on July 28 with Mohamed Irfaan Ali, president of the Caribbean country of Guyana, Xi also touched on dealing with climate change.
Xi called on countries to "join hands to tackle global challenges such as climate change", when delivering a toast at the welcoming banquet of the opening ceremony of the ongoing Chengdu FISU World University Games.
In addition, the past month witnessed senior Chinese officials' dialogues with dignitaries of leading economies and major sources of carbon emissions in the world - such as the United States and the European Union, observers noted.
In July, US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry visited China.
Premier Li Qiang told Kerry that all parties should "abide by the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities in addressing climate change", developed countries should take the lead in reducing emissions and fulfill their financial commitments, and developing countries should make contributions within their capacity.
Also in Beijing, Vice-Premier Ding Xuexiang and European Commission Executive Vice-President Frans Timmermans co-chaired the fourth EU-China High-Level Dialogue on Environment and Climate on July 4 and reached extensive common understandings.
The dialogue with the EU "sent a positive signal of China and the EU working together on climate change, biodiversity loss and other global challenges", said Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Mao Ning.
Leila Benali, Morocco's minister of energy transition and sustainable development, said China has rich experience and achievements in energy transformation and sustainable development.
Morocco looks forward to deepening exchanges and cooperation with China in relevant fields and jointly taking the road of green, low-carbon and sustainable development, she told Chinese Ambassador to Morocco Li Changlin last month.
Wang Wen, executive dean of Renmin University of China's Chongyang Institute for Financial Studies, said China's climate change-oriented green economy is developing at a rapid speed and "China is one of the few major countries that are faithfully committed to realizing the Paris Agreement on climate change".
"For example, China's total output of hydropower accounts for 29 percent of the global total output. And over the past few years, there has been growing awareness among the Chinese public about the great significance and implication of tackling climate change and seeking green development," he said.
Chinese diplomats have continued reaching out to foreign parties to advance the bilateral and multilateral agenda on tackling climate change.
On Friday, Foreign Minister Wang Yi told United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan by phone that Beijing supports Dubai in hosting the 28th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, or COP 28, and is willing to strengthen strategic cooperation with the UAE in the international arena.
Projects and cooperative programs for energy saving and improving the climate have played a key part in major visions proposed by Beijing, including the Belt and Road Initiative and the Global Development Initiative, and have drawn widespread acclaim from countries around the globe, observers noted.
Wang Yiwei, a professor at Renmin University of China's School of International Studies and director of the university's Institute of International Affairs, said the China-proposed programs "possess both high standards and great feasibility", helping introduce environmentally friendly projects to developing countries such as Kenya.
Furthermore, "by technological upgrade and renovation, Chinese investors transformed some steel factories in Europe to make sure they meet standards of both the EU and China, while securing jobs for local workers and furthering tax contribution to local authorities", he said.
It is no wonder that over 150 countries have actively subscribed to the BRI, including the projects seeking green transformation, he added.
#176
China's highest wind farm, located in the Tibet autonomous region, started power generation on Thursday, said its operator China Three Gorges Corp.
With an installed capacity of 72.6 megawatts and a maximum single-unit capacity of 3.6 MW, the wind power project is also China's largest ultra-high-altitude facility.
Heights ranging from 3,500 meters to 5,500 meters are categorized as ultra-high altitudes. The Tibet facility is also the first wind power project to be integrated with the main power grid in the region, the company said.
The project will boost the annual on-grid electricity to more than 200 million kilowatt-hours, saving more than 60,000 metric tons of standard coal every year, reducing carbon dioxide emissions to the tune of 173,000 tons and sulfur dioxide emissions by more than 20 tons, it said.
Lei Mingshan, chairman of the company, said the project is of great significance to the development of more ultra-high-altitude wind power units in China as well as economic and social development in the region.
The company has been stepping up wind power development in recent years as the country seeks to ensure domestic energy security amid its green energy transition.
An analyst said wind power will be playing a key role in facilitating the country's ambition to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.
Provincial-level regions with abundant solar and wind resources, including Gansu province and Tibet and the Inner Mongolia autonomous regions, see massive potential for wind power and should take the lead in developing clean energy in China, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
Wind power has become a major player in the country's new energy mix, and is expected to further expand its share in the future, he said.
China Three Gorges Corp has been actively developing wind power projects in recent years. The world's first offshore wind farm using 16-MW turbines, operated by the company, started power generation in July, an important breakthrough for China's offshore wind power industry in terms of high-end equipment manufacturing and deep-sea wind power facility construction.
Located off Fujian province, the facility's turbines are equipped with 152-meter hubs. Each turbine has the world's longest impeller diameter of 252 meters, a swept area of around 50,000 square meters and the lightest per-MW weight. It is capable of producing more than 66 gigawatt-hours of clean electricity per year, it said.
#177
Investment in nonfossil energy power generation rose 60.9 percent year-on-year during the first half, accounting for 88.6 percent of total power investment in the country, while the trend of green and low-carbon transformation in the power industry is expected to continue accelerating, according to a trade association.
Key surveyed enterprises completed investment of 331.9 billion yuan ($46.47 billion) in the power supply sector during the first six months, an increase of 53.8 percent year-on-year, with that in nonfossil energy power generation reaching 294 billion yuan, up 60.9 percent year-on-year, China Electricity Council, a national trade association of China's power enterprises and institutions, said during a news conference in Beijing on Tuesday.
Investment in solar power, nuclear power, wind power, thermal power and hydropower increased by 113.6 percent, 56.1 percent, 34.3 percent, 13.0 percent and 10.6 percent, respectively, year-on-year. Investment in power grid construction rose to 205.4 billion yuan, up 7.8 percent year-on-year, it said.
The council said that as China has been continuously pushing forward its green energy transition, with ambitious goals to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, the country's newly installed power generation capacity is expected to exceed 300 million kilowatts for the first time in history this year, of which newly installed capacity of nonfossil energy power generation will exceed 230 million kW.
Installed power generation capacity is expected to reach 2.86 billion kW by the end of 2023, an increase of about 11.5 percent year-on-year. The installed power generation capacity of nonfossil energy is expected to rise to 1.51 billion kW by then, accounting for about 53 percent of total installed capacity, an increase of 3 percentage points year-on-year, it said.
The estimate is in line with forecasts by the National Energy Administration, saying that China will add 160 gigawatts of wind and solar capacity in 2023, a year-on-year growth of 33 percent, with a focus on deeper integration of solar and wind power to the grid.
The council emphasized the importance of sufficient power supply in the country in response to recent surging electricity demand caused by scorching temperatures in many parts of the country.
It is necessary to take orderly measures to ensure sufficient power during peak hours and extreme weather, with clean coal playing an important role in stable electricity supply in the country, it said.
The council suggested more efforts should be made in coordinating the planning of coal power plants, improving the long-term market mechanism for coal power, and vigorously promoting technological innovation and energy efficiency in the sector.
An analyst said China has been making all-out efforts to guarantee stable and adequate electricity supply across the country this year, amid a backdrop of resumption of work and production, which leads to demand recovery.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said enabling sufficient power supply is a major task for the country.
While China has been developing wind, solar and hydropower on a large scale, clean coal remains strategically important to the country's energy mix and further ensures domestic power supply, Luo said.
The council predicted earlier that the highest power demand in China this year will be around 1.37 billion kW, an increase of around 80 million kW compared to 2022, or even 100 million kW higher in case of a prolonged period of widespread extreme weather.
The country's power use, a key barometer of economic activity, registered stable growth during the first half, driven by the overall recovery of the country's economy, with power consumption expected to increase by about 6 percent year-on-year to reach 9.15 trillion kilowatt-hours, said the council.
Overall electricity supply and demand are expected to remain balanced throughout the year, with possible localized strained power supply situations during certain periods, it said.
#178
China Energy Investment Corp's under-construction renewable energy projects hit a record for installed capacity in the first half, the company said on Friday, as it sped up green energy transition while ensuring domestic energy security.
The installed capacity of renewable energy projects under construction rose to 39.81 million kilowatts, a record high, as it saw 8.54 million kilowatts of clean energy projects begin construction and 5.52 million kilowatts put into operation in the January-June period, the best first-half performance in recent years, said Huang Qing, a company spokesman, during a news conference in Beijing on Friday.
The company, also known as China Energy, has been accelerating the construction of massive wind and solar power facilities nationwide, as well as hydropower stations and pumped storage hydropower projects while pushing forward the clean utilization of coal, Huang added.
China Energy started operations at Asia's largest coal-linked carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) facility last month in Jiangsu province, which will capture 500,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide each year.
The government has included CCUS as part of its national strategy and has provided a favorable policy environment for its development and deployment.
Chinese energy companies have been ramping up research and application of a combination of renewable energy and energy storage, as well as the integration of clean coal power and CCUS, to facilitate the country's goals to achieve deep cuts in emissions, said Zhu Yi, a senior analyst tracking metals and mining at Bloomberg Intelligence, a market monitor.
Zhu said China's commitment to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 will motivate various sectors to upgrade production lines and techniques.
The country has seen a heat wave intensify since June in many regions, triggering a sharp increase in power demand, and the company has been stepping up energy supplies this month to meet requirements, it said.
Both total power generation and thermal power generation reached record highs during the first six months, Huang said, adding that thermal power generation increased by 8.4 percent year-on-year, ensuring sufficient power supply in the country.
The company invested 74.4 billion yuan ($10.37 billion) in the first six months, a year-on-year increase of 51.1 percent, Huang added.
#179
Climate: Analyst sees much potential for collaboration
Experts have expressed high expectations for climate-themed technological cooperation between China and the United States, saying this will greatly reduce the cost of the world's efforts to cope with the global climate crisis.
They made the remarks on Monday at a news conference at the Beijing Hotel, where China's special envoy for climate change, Xie Zhenhua, and John Kerry, the US' special presidential envoy for climate, are holding talks.
Kerry's four-day trip to China, which began on Sunday, is an important contact on climate issues between the world's two largest carbon emitters. It comes after China suspended climate talks with the US last year.
The suspension of the talks was one of eight countermeasures that China rolled out in response to the controversial visit by Nancy Pelosi, then speaker of the US House of Representatives, to the Taiwan region in August.
Liu Yanhua, honorary director of China's national committee of experts on climate change, said there are solid foundations for Sino-US climate cooperation, as it's a consensus of the heads of state of the two nations.
When President Xi Jinping met with US President Joe Biden ahead of the G20 summit in Bali, Indonesia, in November, "the two presidents emphasized that the two nations must beef up climate cooperation", said Liu, who is also a former vice-minister of science and technology.
The two countries have previously cooperated on climate change issues many times, and have made great contributions to global climate governance on all such occasions, he said, citing as an example the success of their joint efforts in promoting the landmark 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change.
China and the US laid the foundations for international support for the agreement.
Following President Xi's trip to the US in June 2013, then US president Barack Obama visited China in November 2014. During Obama's trip to China, the two presidents made public the China-US Joint Announcement on Climate Change, which said they "resolved to work closely together over the next year to address major impediments to reaching a successful global climate agreement in Paris".
Liu noted that four working groups set up by China and the US following a joint declaration in 2021 at the COP26 United Nations climate change conference in Glasgow, Scotland, were also part of the foundation for Sino-US climate cooperation.
The four groups were established to leverage the respective strengths of the two sides for climate cooperation in various sectors, and they have already done some work, he said.
As the world's largest carbon emitters and also the biggest producers of renewable energy, the two countries have much cooperation potential to tap into while promoting the global energy transition, Liu said.
Making full use of their respective strengths, China and the US can consider carrying out climate cooperation in a third-party country. Another potential cooperation area for the two sides is technologies for addressing climate change, he said.
Citing a report from the International Energy Agency in 2021, Liu said that in 2050, almost half the emission reductions will have to come from technologies that are now only at the demonstration or prototype phase, if the world wants to realize net-zero emissions by that time.
There are many problems to address as the world strives to tackle climate change. "No country can be immune from climate change. Neither can any single country address these problems by itself. Only via cooperation can we promote progress," he said.
Li Zheng, dean of the Institute of Climate Change and Sustainable Development at Tsinghua University, stressed the importance of Sino-US cooperation on solar panel production as part of global climate efforts, citing a study published in the journal Nature last year.
The study estimated that, between 2006 and 2020, based on historical installed capacities as well as input material and sales price data for solar panel modules in the United States, Germany and China - the world's three largest solar-deploying countries - the globalized solar supply chain saved the countries a combined $67 billion: $36 billion for China, $24 billion for the US and $7 billion for Germany.
The study found that if strong protectionist policies are implemented - limiting the free flow of goods, talent and capital going forward - solar panel costs will be higher by about 20 to 25 percent by 2030.
Li said: "If the technology develops fast, the cost will decrease rapidly. ... In case of trade barriers rather than cooperation, the speed will be greatly reduced."
#180
The visit to China by John Kerry, the United States' special presidential envoy for climate, is expected to focus on enhancing engagement on climate and clean energy issues between the two countries, while possibly addressing how they can coordinate for the success of the upcoming COP28 United Nations climate change conference, experts said.
Kerry arrived in Beijing on Sunday and is scheduled to leave on Wednesday.
China suspended climate talks with the US following the visit by Nancy Pelosi, then speaker of the US House of Representatives, to the Taiwan region in August last year.
Kerry previously held discussions with his Chinese counterpart Xie Zhenhua on the sidelines of COP27 in Egypt in November. The two envoys also talked via video link in early January, discussing joint efforts to address global climate in a multilateral manner.
Joanna Lewis, director of the Science, Technology and International Affairs Program at Georgetown University in Washington, said, "As this is the first face-to-face meeting in several months, I expect this trip to be focused on discussing how to restart engagement on climate and clean energy both at the high level and at the working level."
Lewis said she is looking forward to witnessing discussions between the two nations for COP28, formally known as the 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is scheduled to be held in the United Arab Emirates later this year.
"As we have seen in the past, if the US and China are not able to discuss key issues on the table at COP28 in advance of the meeting, it could lead to challenges in achieving successful outcomes," she said.
It is important that both sides discuss some of the issues in advance and try to find ways to work together to assemble support from other countries on key issues such as the Global Stocktake, loss and damage, and climate finance, she added.
Wang Yi, deputy director of China's national expert committee on climate change, said COP28 is a key topic for the two sides to discuss, though it's also important for them to hold talks on how to continue the implementation of the China-US Joint Glasgow Declaration on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s, which was reached in 2021 at COP26 in Glasgow, Scotland.
Through bilateral efforts, China and the US laid the foundations for international support for the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change, which was adopted by 196 parties in 2015.
The world's two largest emitters of greenhouse gases should make full of this legacy to ensure a successful COP28, Wang said.
COP28 has an important role to play in the Global Stocktake process of assessing every country's progress toward reaching its existing 2030 targets, according to Thom Woodroofe, a senior fellow and founding director of the Asia Society Policy Institute's Climate Hub.
Woodroofe, who is also a former climate diplomat, said that a shift to "tackling the climate crisis as a stand-alone issue" in the bilateral relationship would be the "holy grail" of Kerry's visit, but that is unlikely.
"While this is unlikely, a good outcome would be an agreement by both sides to return to where they got to at the end of 2021 at the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow," he said in an email.
Dimitri de Boer, regional director of programs for Asia at environmental law organization ClientEarth, said he hopes to see China and the US prioritize cooperation on accelerating global energy transition to help tackle the global climate crisis.
"We're now seeing the effects of climate change in countries around the world, and we urgently want to see the world's largest economies cooperate to address it," he emphasized.
"Poor US-China relations have been the key factor holding this back, but we've recently seen some hopeful signals. The top priority should be for both sides to coordinate on accelerating the global energy transition," he added.
#181
Report: Pace of installation on solar, wind sectors may help China hit target early
China may beat its 2030 target for solar and wind energy development five years ahead of schedule, a report from an independent nonprofit organization in the United States has found, as China celebrates its National Low-Carbon Day on Wednesday.
Prospective solar and wind energy projects that have been announced or are in the preconstruction and construction phases in China totaled approximately 379 gigawatts and 371 GW, respectively, said the report published by Global Energy Monitor late last month.
If these prospective facilities - nearly all of which are included in the 2021-25 five-year plans of different regions - are built and commissioned, China is expected to roughly double its current installed operating capacities for solar and wind energy, it said, adding that this will help the country realize its 2030 target for the two types of renewable energy by 2025.
In December 2020, while addressing the Climate Ambition Summit, President Xi Jinping announced that China will strive to boost its installed capacity of wind and solar power to more than 1,200 GW by 2030.
"As we closely monitor the implementation of prospective projects, this detailed information becomes indispensable in navigating the country's energy landscape," Dorothy Mei, project manager at Global Energy Monitor, was quoted as saying in a media release from the organization.
However, Martin Weil, a researcher with the organization, said China still needs to make more efforts to promote its energy transition.
"China is making strides, but with coal still holding sway as the dominant power source, the country needs to bolster advancements in energy storage and green technologies for a secure energy future," he said.
The country has seen a slew of renewable energy projects go into operation in the past few days as electricity consumption peaks amid scorching heat waves.
In the Bohai Sea, for instance, offshore wind power facilities with a combined installed capacity of 500,000 kilowatts were put into operation over 10 days ago. To date, these facilities have generated roughly 200 million kilowatt-hours of electricity.
In desert areas in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, Mulei Kazak autonomous county in the region, and Delingha city in Qinghai province, solar and wind energy generation facilities with a total installed capacity of nearly 3.1 million kilowatts are up and running.
Altogether, they are expected to produce 7.5 billion kilowatt-hours of green electricity annually, according to local authorities.
Last year, the proportion of coal in the country's energy consumption mix stood at 56.2 percent. With green power development gaining speed, renewable energy has vastly dominated new electricity projects.
"The installed capacity for renewable energy across the country grew by 47.4 million kilowatts in the first quarter this year, increasing by 86.5 percent year-on-year and representing 80.3 percent of the total new installed capacity," Wang Dapeng, deputy head of new energy and renewable energy department at the National Energy Administration, said at a news conference in late April.
#182
Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday stressed efforts to put in place new systems for a higher-standard open economy and promote the gradual transition from dual control over the amount and intensity of energy consumption to dual control over the amount and intensity of carbon emissions.
Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks while presiding over a meeting of the central commission for deepening overall reform, which he heads.
Xi said that new systems for a higher-standard open economy are a strategic move to proactively boost reform and development through opening up.
He highlighted the importance of institutional opening up and deepening institutional reform in investment, trade, finance, and innovation, among other key areas of foreign exchanges and cooperation, to actively raise China's opening up to a new level.
While staying focused on the strategic target of realizing modernization of agriculture and rural areas and building up its strength in agriculture, China should regard the handling of the relationship between farmers and land as its main task and work faster to shore up weak links in agricultural and rural development, to lay a solid foundation for building a modern socialist country in all respects, Xi said.
The building of ecological civilization has entered a critical period where cutting carbon emissions has become a strategic focus, Xi said.
He called for efforts to exercise better control over the amount and intensity of energy consumption and shift gradually towards controlling both the amount and intensity of carbon emissions.
Xi stressed the necessity of promoting the reform of the salary system for university faculty members and research fellows in order to further unleash innovation vitality and creativity in institutions of higher learning and research institutes.
On improving the national oil and gas supply capability, Xi said China should actively and prudently promote the institutional reform of the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors of oil and gas industries and ensure a stable and reliable supply.
On the electricity system, Xi demanded efforts to accelerate the building of a new power system that is clean and low-carbon, safe and sufficient, and cost-effective and highly efficient to promote the revolution of energy production and consumption and ensure national energy security.
Li Qiang, Wang Huning, and Cai Qi, all members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and deputy directors of the central commission for deepening overall reform, attended the meeting.
The meeting noted that China's development is facing a complex international situation. Efforts should be made to optimize the top-level design of new systems for an open economy, deepen institutional reform in trade and investment sectors, expand market access, and optimize the business environment and the service and support system.
China's comprehensive strength should be given full play to attract global resources and production factors based on China's strong domestic economy, which will improve the level and quality of trade and investment cooperation, according to the meeting.
It urged a tight connection between building a higher-standard open economy and national strategies, such as high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, amid efforts to actively participate in the reform and construction of the global governance system.
The meeting urged a holistic approach to deal with the relationship between development and carbon emissions, seeking truth from facts, being realistic and pragmatic, and adjusting and optimizing policies and measures scientifically.
The meeting also urged reform in the oil and natural gas market and reserve system.
In building a new electricity system, the proportion of traditional energy would decrease in a well-planned manner based on the safe and reliable substitution of new energy. An effective market and competent government should integrate better to deliver fundamental public services in electricity, according to the meeting.
#183
Professor Wang Ruzhu, the director of the Institute of Refrigeration and Cryogenics at the School of Mechanical Engineering, was conferred the Global Energy Prize on July 6 for his groundbreaking research in refrigeration, heat pumps and thermal management, according to the university.
Wang, who is also a Chair Professor of Shanghai Jiao Tong University, was awarded under the category of new ways of energy application. The award recognizes outstanding research in sorption cooling, which significantly improves the technology of using low-grade thermal energy to create high-efficiency cooling and for a significant contribution to the development of a dehumidifier-based heat pump, which doubles the energy efficiency of cooling and heating, according to the official website for the prize.
As an expert in refrigeration, heat pumps, and thermal and humidity control, Wang has created innovations related to the efficient conversion, storage, and utilization of low-grade thermal energy, according to the university.
Zhong Lin Wang, an academician of Chinese Academy of sciences and the founding director of the Beijing Institute of Nanoenergy and Nanosystems, is another winner of the award from China. His award is for the invention of triboelectric nanogenerators as a new energy technology for autonomous systems, the Internet of Things, robotics, artificial intelligence, and large-scale blue energy harvesting.
"The research made by the 2023 laureates highly contributes to the development of off-grid energy supply and energy efficiency. The future of the energy transition largely depends on the success of these fields. This once again underlines how thin the line between fundamental science and the real world of energy is," said Rae Kwon Chung, the Head of the International Committee.
The Global Energy Prize is an international award in the energy industry that recognizes outstanding scientific research and scientific-technical developments in the field of energy. It aims to promote greater efficiency and environmental security for energy sources on Earth in the interests of all mankind.
The shortlist for the 2023 prize included 15 scientists from nine countries: China, India, Japan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Switzerland, and the US.
#184
Further efforts are expected to strengthen global energy cooperation and accelerate the clean and secure transformation of the energy industry while ensuring affordable electricity for both residential and industrial consumers, experts and executives said on Tuesday.
The remarks were made at the ongoing 14th Annual Meeting of the New Champions, also known as the Summer Davos Forum, in Tianjin.
Xin Baoan, chairman of State Grid Corp of China, said the State-owned power supplier will take a series of measures to enhance cooperation among energy facilities globally, strengthen links with power grids in neighboring countries, deepen policy coordination, promote the internationalization of energy production, consumption and trade, and actively participate in the formulation of international standards.
Xin said such efforts will be made to bolster international collaboration in green energy development, offering regional solutions that will contribute to the global pursuit of carbon neutrality.
"While promoting green energy transition, more efforts should be made to ensure secure and affordable electricity for both household and industrial users. At present, China's power price remains at a relatively low level compared to the global average," he said.
China's major power grid constructor and operator has stepped up efforts to promote green energy transition in recent years. It has an action plan to achieve its decarbonization goals and accelerate the construction of a new type of power system in China. It has also increased its investments in relevant scientific and technological projects.
State Grid also strengthened construction of grids, which greatly improved their capacity and ensured stable operations after connecting with a large amount of new energies. It has so far built 33 ultra-high-voltage transmission and transformation projects and the world's largest new energy cloud platform, which connects over 4.4 million new energy stations.
Such efforts are in line with the National Energy Administration's call in April to deepen global communication, make full use of cooperation opportunities brought by platforms such as the League of Arab States and the African Union, contribute to the low-carbon transition of global energy industry, and support stable and secure energy supply with an emphasis on raising efficiency and making energy more accessible.
China is now the world's largest market for clean energy and the biggest new energy equipment manufacturer, according to the NEA. The country contributed over 70 percent of the global photovoltaic capacity and 60 percent of the wind power capacity as of May, effectively driving down the cost of renewable energy worldwide and accelerating the green transformation of the global energy industry.
By May, China had green energy cooperation projects with over 100 countries and regions, established government-to-government energy cooperation mechanisms with over 90 countries, regions and international organizations, and expanded energy cooperation networks involving participants of the Belt and Road Initiative.
"China's future is looking extremely positive from an economic perspective, and it's vital that China deepen collaboration with European countries and regions to battle climate crisis, promote decarbonization and facilitate transition to renewable energy. These are challenges that need global solutions in which China could be at the forefront," said Simon O'Connell, CEO of the Netherlands Development Organization, an organization that aims to promote sustainable development, at the Summer Davos Forum.
Liu Yang, expert partner at the global consultancy Bain & Co, said at the forum that more efforts are expected to guide companies from various sectors to voluntarily participate in the carbon markets, which is important to achieve global decarbonization goals.
"It is clear that voluntary carbon market investment is required to scale up climate action globally, and it plays an important role in establishing a global price on carbon for business. While it is more than two decades old globally, the market is still in its early stages with high degrees of controversy and therefore uncertainty for corporate entrants," Liu said.
#185
Firm keen to ride China's innovation, tech drive as its product facility in Xi'an starts operations
Hitachi Energy vows to continuously accelerate investment in grid network innovation and digitalization in China to further facilitate the country's construction of a digital power grid with increasing renewable power penetration, said a top company official.
Hitachi Energy, whose global headquarters is in Switzerland, will be investing more in the digitalization of grids, as well as solutions to ensure the safe and stable operation of power systems in China, said Claudio Facchin, CEO of Hitachi Energy, during the inauguration of a new power quality products factory in Xi'an, Shaanxi province, in June.
"Hitachi Energy has witnessed in China a tremendous push in innovation and technology during the past few years and we will be playing a key role in pushing forward potential innovation of the digital area in the country, leveraging our competence and knowledge that we have in all parts of the world. The urgent energy transition in China requires collaboration across markets and sectors to help face possible challenges posed to the country's power systems with increasing renewable power penetration," Facchin said.
The company unveiled its new quality products facility in Xi'an in June, which will be producing core components as well as solutions for ultra-high-voltage and extra-high-voltage transmission projects in China and worldwide, to ensure long-distance and high-efficiency renewable energy transmission, said the company.
Facchin said Hitachi Energy continues to see China as an essential part of that energy transition, particularly in terms of accelerating energy transition.
"We have announced quite a few of those investments and expansion in China, such as the inauguration of our Xi'an power quality products manufacturing base. We are not only expanding existing capacity, but also adding new capacity and new technology that will help us in complementing our portfolio of offerings for China and many other markets," he added.
An analyst said digital power grids, which involve artificial intelligence, big data, simulation modeling and the internet of things, will better facilitate the consumption of power increasingly produced by clean energy in the country.
China has been stepping up efforts in digital power grid in recent years, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
The digital power grid construction sector has attracted massive investment in recent years from grid operators including State Grid of China and China Southern Power Grid, as well as overseas technology contributors like Hitachi Energy, he said.
According to China's modern energy system plan, the share of non-fossil energy consumption in the country will increase to around 20 percent by 2025, and the proportion of non-fossil power generation will be around 39 percent by then.
Hitachi Energy said the new plant in Xi'an will not only provide customized power quality solutions for industrial customers in industry, transport and infrastructure, but also export its products worldwide, including Europe, the Americas, Oceania, Africa, Southeast Asia and the Middle East.
"With more automated operations, digital management and larger capacity, the new plant will advance the rapid development and innovation of capacitors and power quality technology," said Zhang Jinquan, executive vice-president of Hitachi Energy.
"We will work with customers and partners to contribute to energy transition and high-quality development in China with leading power quality solutions."
#186
China's successful operation of its first high-pressure pure hydrogen pipeline test heralds technical support for future large-scale, low-cost and long-distance pure hydrogen transportation in the country, said industry experts.
The country successfully carried out its first high-pressure pure hydrogen pipeline test at a testing ground in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region in Northwestern China on Sunday, according to operator China Oil & Gas Pipeline Network Corp, the nation's largest energy infrastructure owner, also known as PipeChina.
This is part of the company's efforts to accelerate the advancement of cutting-edge technologies for hydrogen storage and transportation and promote the integrated development of natural gas pipeline transportation and new energy, it said.
Zhu Shaolin, research director of the hydrogen department at Trend-Bank, an emerging industry research and consulting company, said that compared with hydrogen tube trailers, the current primary long-distance hydrogen transport method in China and worldwide - which is both costly and inefficient - pipeline transportation of hydrogen is an important method for achieving large-scale, long-distance and cost-effective movement of the chemical.
China's construction of pure hydrogen transportation facilities began late compared with developed countries, but the successful test provides technical support for future construction of hydrogen pipelines in China, Zhu said.
Domestic energy companies in China have been laying out plans to build long-distance hydrogen pipelines in the country to meet growing hydrogen demand in the transport sector and accelerate green energy development in the country, including China Petrochemical Corp and China National Petroleum Corp.
China Petrochemical Corp announced plans in April to build the country's first long-distance hydrogen pipeline stretching over 400 kilometers from the Inner Mongolia autonomous region to Beijing.
The pipeline in the first phase will be able to handle about 100,000 metric tons of hydrogen each year and has the potential to increase capacity by 500,000 tons over the long run in order to transfer clean fuel more effectively from the resource-rich west to energy-consuming regions in the east, said the company, also known as Sinopec.
The company, which is the nation's largest oil refiner and fuel supplier, claims that the pipeline will bolster China's efforts toward green energy transition.
After being put into operation, the supply from Inner Mongolia will replace the current hydrogen production from fossil fuels in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, play a pioneering role in trans-regional hydrogen transmission and help promote the country's energy upgrades, it said.
#187
China National Petroleum Corp's gas deal with QatarEnergy will ensure sufficient gas supply in the country in the long run while facilitating its green energy transition, said industry experts.
The two parties signed a 27-year agreement on Tuesday, one of the longest contract durations in the liquefied natural gas industry, under which China will purchase 4 million metric tons of LNG a year from Qatar. CNPC will also acquire a 1.25 percent share in the expansion of Qatar's North Field East LNG project, CNPC said in a statement on Tuesday.
According to CNPC, the expansion project of the North Field LNG project includes gas field development and the construction of four LNG production lines with a production capacity of 8 million tons per year.
An analyst said that as the competition for LNG has ramped up since the beginning of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the deal will guarantee China's gas supply and ensure domestic energy supply amid its green transition.
Qatar, the world's top LNG exporter, is putting China ahead to secure gas supplies from its massive production expansion project, as the deal on Tuesday marks QatarEnergy's third deal to supply LNG from the expansion to an Asian buyer, said Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF.
Qatar is consolidating ties with Asian buyers, especially Chinese buyers, and half of the project output is expected to meet demand in Asian markets, while the rest goes to Europe, she said.
QatarEnergy earlier this year made China Petrochemical Corp a project partner under similar terms. The two companies reached a 27-year supply agreement in 2022 for 4 million tons per year.
According to QatarEnergy chief Saad al-Kaabi, the deal with CNPC will enhance the company's strong relations with China, one of the most important gas markets in the world and a key market for Qatari energy products.
The North Field East project will come up with an additional LNG production capacity of 32 million tons per year after it is put into operation, increasing Qatar's LNG annual export capacity to 110 million tons by 2025. A second phase, North Field South, will further increase capacity to 126 million tons per year by 2027, according to QatarEnergy.
Dai Houliang, chairman of CNPC, said the company will actively explore comprehensive cooperation with QatarEnergy related to the full industry chain of oil and gas, and green and low-carbon energy, fully leveraging the technologies and experience advantages accumulated in oil and gas field development over the long term.
#188
Meijin Energy, a coal and coke producer from North China's Shanxi province, has in recent years expanded into the clean hydrogen sector by making use of oven gas from its coke production.
After several years of development, Meijin is now able to extract 96,000 metric tons of hydrogen from coke oven gas annually, enough to power 10,000 hydrogen-powered vehicles for a year.
Besides producing hydrogen, Meijin has also gone downstream in the industrial chain and is manufacturing new energy buses and trucks that operate using hydrogen.
"Green transition is by no means easy for an energy company," said Yao Jinlong, board chairman of the company. "Over the past decade, we have tried many ways and done many things. We are now confident that we are doing the right thing on the right track."
Hydrogen demand is on the rise in China, boosted by the rapid development of new energy vehicles that use hydrogen for power. Compared with cars powered by lithium-ion batteries that are mostly for personal use, hydrogen vehicles are primarily developed for commercial purposes, such as buses and trucks, with advantages for heavier and longer hauls.
According to a government plan on the hydrogen sector released last year, China aims to have 50,000 hydrogen fuel cell vehicles on the road by 2025, up from about 10,000 at the beginning of this year. The number is expected to rocket to 1 million by 2035, said the China Society of Automotive Engineers.
Yao, whose grandfather founded the company in the 1980s, hails from China's coal-rich Shanxi province. He studied abroad to get his bachelor's and master's degrees and joined Meijin when he returned home.
Yao decided to lead the company into the hydrogen sector in 2016 after he studied a number of modern energy technologies and found separating hydrogen from coke oven gas a viable option to produce hydrogen at low costs.
"As a large coke producer, Meijin has plenty of raw materials to work with. That is our advantage," Yao said.
Meijin is one of such companies in Shanxi, and China as a whole, eager for energy transition as the country races toward its carbon peaking and neutrality goals.
The nation is in pursuit of high-quality development after decades of fast expansion. It has seen a change in its energy structure, with clean energy making up around a quarter of total energy consumption by the end of 2021, up from 14.5 percent about a decade ago, a white paper released earlier this year showed.
In Yao's estimation, China has huge potential to cut carbon emissions from heavy goods transport, as heavy-duty diesel trucks now contribute nearly half of the country's carbon dioxide emissions by vehicles, but account for only 8 percent of the total number of vehicles.
Meijin is using hydrogen-powered heavy-duty trucks to transport coal, trying to get more people's attention on the use of such vehicles and joining the race to decarbonize China's heavy-duty trucking industry.
#189
China is capable of achieving net-zero greenhouse gas emissions ahead of schedule while further accelerating the global transition to a low-carbon energy structure, as the country's nonfossil fuel energy sources have exceeded 50 percent of its total installed electricity generation capacity, industry experts said.
Nonfossil fuel sources, including wind energy, nuclear energy, solar power and hydropower, account for 50.9 percent of China's total installed electricity generation capacity, exceeding the same from fossil fuel sources for the first time, said Yang Yinkai, deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission.
Speaking during the Shanghai International Carbon Neutrality Expo in Technologies, Products and Achievements, which started on Sunday, Yang said that China has come up with various supporting policies in recent years to ensure the achievement of carbon peak and carbon neutrality, which has led to the vibrant development of low-carbon industries in the country.
The commission will continue to promote carbon reduction and pollution reduction while accelerating green transition, Yang added.
An analyst said that both the installed capacity of and power generation from nonfossil fuel sources in China have been developing at a rapid pace in recent years, as the country is scaling up investment in the energy sector and low-carbon technologies.
There is no doubt that China can achieve carbon peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060, as the country has been leading in the production and deployment of renewables, said Lin Boqiang, head of Xiamen University's China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy.
China has devoted a significant amount of resources to build its renewable energy capacity in recent years, constructing large wind, solar and hydropower plants in the west of the country, as it seeks to meet its carbon peak target before 2030, Lin said.
The country has been building massive wind and solar power facilities in its desert regions. Most of the projects are located in the northwestern parts of the country that have vast renewable energy sources.
China is capable of accomplishing a faster than expected clean energy transition, according to Kou Nannan, head of China Research at BloombergNEF.
"Increasing installed power generation capacity using nonfossil fuel sources in the country shows how fast China's power system can decarbonize," he said.
Renewable power and other zero-emission technologies will play key roles in meeting China's rising power demand, and the country needs to accelerate building more wind and solar plants, which have proven to be the cheapest means to reduce its emissions, he added.
According to the National Energy Administration, China's electricity generation from renewable sources reached 594.7 billion kilowatt-hours in the first quarter, an increase of 11.4 percent year-on-year. The total figure includes 342.2 billion kWh power generated by wind and solar facilities, up 27.8 percent year-on-year, administration data showed.
#190
China will continue optimizing its power battery industry management policies to further facilitate the rapid development of the sector, said a government official on Friday.
China is keen to optimize the management policies of the power battery industry, strengthening the overall planning of the industry's development while guiding rational investment to avoid blind expansion and disorderly development, said Xin Guobin, vice-minister of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, on Friday during a power battery forum in Yibin, Sichuan province.
The country will further improve technical standards and enhance safety requirements, he said.
According to Xin, power batteries, as the core components of new energy vehicles and the primary driving force behind the electrification transformation of the automotive industry, have witnessed rapid development in China in recent years.
China currently leads the world in terms of power battery production and sales, with its installed capacity of power batteries logging steady growth in 2022 amid a boom in the country's new energy vehicle market, he said.
The installed capacity of NEV power batteries totaled 294.6 gigawatt-hours last year, surging 90.7 percent year-on-year, making up 56.9 percent of total sales worldwide, he said.
Recent figures released by the China Automotive Battery Innovation Alliance show that the production of power batteries in China in May increased by 57.4 percent year-on-year, while the installed capacity of power batteries for NEVs has grown by 52.1 percent year-on-year.
Xin said the government should continue supporting collaborative innovation within the industry and ensuring the supply of critical resources, including encouraging investment in overseas mineral resources, while improving recycling and utilization systems for power batteries.
The government should also further deepen international exchange and cooperation and further optimize the international business environment, he said.
An analyst said China currently has the largest battery manufacturing capacity in the world, with more capacity coming.
"China is the largest market for lithium-ion batteries," said BloombergNEF energy storage analyst Shi Jiayan.
"The battery is an important tool to support energy transition. The increasing demand for energy transition overseas and the shortage of battery supplies bring many opportunities for Chinese battery companies," she said.
"If properly applied, capital can be beneficial in accelerating China's energy transition. Meanwhile, improving standards can further help Chinese battery companies expand their technological advantages."
#191
Chinese solar companies' recent announcements of newly installed solar power capacity are expected to further cement the country's leading position in solar energy production worldwide while facilitating the country's green energy transition, said industry experts.
LONGi Green Energy Technology, a Chinese photovoltaics company, announced plans on Tuesday to invest approximately 12.5 billion yuan ($1.75 billion) in the construction of a project with an annual production capacity of 20-gigawatt monocrystalline silicon rods, 24-GW monocrystalline cells and supporting facilities.
On the same day, top polysilicon maker Tongwei Co Ltd announced its plan to invest in the construction of a project that will have an annual production capacity of 25 GW solar cells and 20 GW PV modules.
China's solar sector has been accelerating at an already world-beating pace in installations, with decreasing costs and rising demand at home and abroad, analysts said.
Fueled by falling costs in the solar supply chain and rising power consumption, especially green power, the country has been pressing ahead with expansions to meet its ambitious goals of a carbon dioxide emissions peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
"China, the largest solar market, is expected to continue to set records in battery conversion efficiency and cost-per-kilowatt-hour as solar companies keep investing in research and development," he said.
"The advances in technology will further lower prices and promote the widespread adoption of clean energy globally."
In the first three months, China added 33.66 GW of grid-connected installed solar power capacity, representing an increase of 155 percent year-on-year, data from the National Energy Administration showed.
The strong quarterly growth is partly due to the drop in supply chain prices, which is caused by the gradual ramping up of PV silicon production capacity - the raw material used to make solar panels - as well as falling prices for modules.
Li Zhenguo, president of LONGi, said improving efficiency and reducing the levelized cost of electricity, or LCOE, has always been the eternal theme of the PV industry's development.
Solar cell efficiency is the beacon of PV technology innovation and every 0.01 percent improvement in solar cell conversion efficiency requires enormous efforts, he said.
On the other hand, the shutdown of outdated capacity has also been accelerating with the continuous progress of industry technology and increasing competition and the issue of overcapacity has always been a temporary phase looking at the development of the past decade.
Innovation remains the biggest driving force for the development of the PV industry to achieve healthy competition, Li said.
Strategic research provider BloombergNEF said recently in a note that China is expected to install 154 GW of solar capacity this year, raising its China forecast from a previous total of 129 GW.
Liu Hanyuan, chairman of Tongwei Co, was quoted by Bloomberg as saying that installations in China could surge to 200 to 300 GW next year.
"The actual development always wows us. The energy transition could only be achieved between 2050 and 2060 when we see reality go beyond our expectations multiple times," he said.
Solar panel maker JA Solar Technology Co forecasts new solar installations of about 150 GW in China this year and sees potential for that to rise to as much as 180 GW if lower prices boost demand.
LONGi announced recently that it achieved a breakthrough in the efficiency of its silicon solar cells, a new world record efficiency at 26.81 percent for its HJT silicon solar cells on full-size silicon wafers through mass production, the latest world record since a Japanese company set the efficiency record at 26.7 percent in 2017.
This is the first time in the history of the PV industry that a Chinese solar technology company has set the world record for silicon solar cell efficiency, and the achievement will be included in the next version of efficiency tables that are published in the technological progress, said Martin Green, a professor at the University of New South Wales in Australia, known as the "Father of PV".
#192
China's position as the leading investor in renewable energy infrastructure worldwide will be further enhanced with the commencement of operations of the Tanque Novo 180 megawatt wind power project in Brazil built by China General Nuclear Power Corp, industry experts said.
Designed with 40 wind turbine units, the project is the second greenfield one built independently by CGN in the state of Bahia, northeast Brazil, which is rich in wind resources, the company said.
All the wind turbines have been made in China and they have the largest blades in South America at present, it said.
According to CGN, the project is expected to generate 720 million kilowatt-hours of electricity annually, capable of meeting the power demand of 430,000 Brazilian households. It can reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 650,000 metric tons each year, it said.
Zhu Qingqiao, the Chinese ambassador to Brazil, said cooperation between both countries in clean energy has a solid foundation and broad prospects, as China is the world's largest investor in renewable energy and the largest manufacturer of clean energy equipment, while the Brazilian government also regards clean energy as a priority for development.
CGN's Tanque Novo project is a successful example of China-Brazil energy innovation cooperation, said Efrain Cruz, deputy minister of Mines and Energy, Brazil.
Not only does it provide clean energy and create jobs in Brazil, but it also effectively drives energy transition and upgrading of the wind energy industry, Cruz said.
China has become a leading investor in global renewable energy infrastructure in recent years, an analyst said.
The accelerated shift toward a low-carbon economy will require rapidly scaled-up investments in renewable energy industries and this will provide Chinese companies more opportunities in overseas markets, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
"China is already the leading global investor in renewable energy infrastructure, and is increasing its overseas investments in renewable energy, particularly solar and wind," he said.
Chen Xiangyu, an analyst with BloombergNEF, said the energy transition and demand for low-cost options have given more opportunities for Chinese wind power companies in the global market.
State Power Investment Corporation said on Wednesday that its photovoltaic power generation project of the Hunutlu Power Plant in Turkiye, with an installed capacity of 21 MW, was connected to the grid in May, and will provide about 33.39 million kWh of clean electricity annually.
#193
Electricite de France will further invest in China to strengthen its presence in the country as the Chinese government has been making greater efforts to attract foreign capital and widen market access, said a top company executive.
"We are committed to consolidate our presence in nuclear power, solar, onshore and offshore wind power, as well as energy services in the country," said Fabrice Fourcade, EDF China chairman, in an interview in Beijing recently.
"We welcome China's efforts to widen market access and promote further opening-up of modern service industries. EDF has been and will continue to aid the country's transition to a low-carbon economy, and we will continue working with local partners and develop a long-term strategic partnership in China," Fourcade said.
He made the remarks during the EDF Pulse Awards China held in Beijing in May - an award that helps Chinese startups use new technology solutions to make electric power generation more ecologically friendly and better connected.
Fourcade said that with innovation at the core of all its work, EDF has diversified its business in China in recent years into low-carbon energy services, including low-carbon heating and cooling networks, EV charging solutions, renewable energy and engineering consultant services.
As one of the largest foreign investors in China's power generation sector, holding nuclear, thermal and renewables assets in China with a net installed capacity of 3,408 megawatts, EDF is committed to providing innovative solutions and technologies under China's double carbon targets, he said.
EDF became the first foreign investor in Chinese nuclear power projects in 2009 via participation in the Taishan European Pressurized Water Reactor (EPR) nuclear power plant, which is led by Taishan Nuclear Power Joint Venture Co, a company founded by State-owned China General Nuclear Power Group (51 percent), EDF (30 percent) and Guangdong Energy Group (19 percent). It is the largest cooperation project to have been signed between China and France in the energy sector.
Taishan's two reactors are capable of supplying the Chinese power grid with up to 24 terawatt-hours of carbon dioxide-free electricity each year, EDF said.
Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, said China's energy transition has brought numerous opportunities to multinational corporations like EDF.
International firms have also been stepping up efforts to align their core business activities with market demand in China, he said.
Among the first batch of foreign companies to enter China to help the country develop its nuclear energy infrastructure, EDF believes there is space for further cooperation with Chinese partners in the sector, even though China is among the world's leaders in nuclear technologies.
Du Wenhui, EDF R&D China center director, said technology research and innovation have long been playing a key role in China's pledge to reduce carbon emissions.
EDF will further strengthen its cooperation and relations with innovative Chinese companies to jointly bring more projects to operational stages in China as well as in Europe, Du said.
#194
Chinese companies are making strides to leverage resource strengths of economies involved in the Belt and Road Initiative to promote new energy cooperation and propel win-win results, with continuous increases in economic viability of BRI new energy projects, experts said.
Their focus of cooperation covers multiple fields including innovative technologies in wind power, hydrogen, power storage as well as equipment manufacturing, such as large-scale photovoltaic station construction and power transmission facilities, according to experts and business executives.
Zhang Li, deputy general manager of China Power Engineering Consulting Group Co Ltd, said that with advancements in new energy technologies, an increasing number of companies enjoy relatively lower costs in developing new energy projects in BRI-involved economies, whose natural resources, such as wind and solar, hold significant potential for exploration and utilization.
"Governments of BRI-involved economies are placing greater emphasis on constructing sustainable and secure energy systems while accelerating their green energy transition," Zhang said, adding that they are seeking global cooperation in these areas.
"BRI-involved countries and regions are highly compatible in terms of investment, trade, technology and production capacity, which is conducive to the establishment of long-term cooperative relations," said Li Jun, an official with the Global Energy Interconnection Development and Cooperation Organization.
Li said that BRI-involved economies have carried out extensive cooperation in the fields of energy trade, investment, equipment as well as technology and standards over the past 10 years.
"With estimated demand for primary energy rising to over 20 billion metric tons of standard coal by 2050 in BRI-involved countries and regions, the outlook for energy cooperation is even more promising," Li said.
According to the National Energy Administration, low-carbon investment related to the BRI now exceeds that of traditional fuels, and Chinese companies' cooperation in green energy projects has been carried out with enterprises from over 100 countries and regions.
Zhao Dong, president of State-owned China Petrochemical Corp - or Sinopec - said that the company has been dedicating to promoting the integration of new energy with oil and gas development through global cooperation.
Zhao said BRI-involved countries and regions have abundant renewable resources such as wind, solar and thermal energy, which represent new growth points for global green energy.
He said the company will continue to promote BRI cooperation in the integrated development of oil and gas exploration as well as renewable energy development. Further efforts will also be made on the synergistic development of green electricity, green hydrogen and the petrochemical industry, such as using green power to produce green hydrogen, which will be tapped in the petrochemical industry to reduce emissions.
Chen Haibin, deputy general manager of State Power Investment Corp Ltd, said the company has been increasing investment in overseas clean energy projects and promoting clean energy as the main component of its foreign energy assets. It also undertook multiple construction projects, such as power plants, substations and transmission lines.
As of the end of April, State Power Investment Corp had overseas installed power generation capacity of 8.84 million kilowatts, with clean energy accounting for 64.5 percent of the total. Combined installed power generation capacity reached 4.67 million kW in countries and regions involved in the BRI, the company said.
Currently, in the hydrogen field, the company is actively organizing Chinese enterprises and European firms and research institutions to promote cooperation in technology and standards in the field of green electricity. At the same time, it shares technological accumulation and project construction experience with companies from countries involved in the League of Arab States and African Union, in the fields of smart energy systems, large-scale photovoltaic power plants and ecological environment restoration, Chen said.
Wang Xiaojun, deputy general manager of Power Construction Corp of China, said the company will make continuous efforts to actively explore new business models covering resource discovery, project engineering, financing and operations to promote cooperation in the new energy field with companies from economies involved in the BRI.
#195
As the world grapples with the economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic and the repercussions of the ongoing energy crunch stemming from the crisis in Ukraine, the Chinese economy is already bouncing back.
According to recent figures from the International Monetary Fund, China's economic growth is set to increase from 3 percent in 2022 to 5.2 percent in 2023, demonstrating the country's incredible resilience during global uncertainties.
Despite these challenges, China's deployment of renewable energy did not slow down; instead, it accelerated.
Last year, China invested more than $274 billion in renewables, up from $176 billion in 2021 and $115 billion in 2020. Half of the world's new renewable power capacity in 2022 was installed in the country - a remarkable achievement, particularly when viewed against the backdrop of global economic turmoil.
China's proven economic resilience is essential for the energy transition, as many countries continue to leverage the country's manufacturing capabilities to transition to cleaner energy sources.
The country produces 72 percent of global polysilicon, almost all the world's ingot and wafer production, and nearly 80 percent of cell and module production for solar photovoltaics. To drive a successful global energy transition, it is critical for China to maintain its resilient economy while supporting global efforts to decentralize supply chains and promote the greening and strengthening of industrial sectors in the developing world.
This proven resilience, combined with a consistent track record of increased climate ambition, suggests that the country is well-positioned to exceed expectations and achieve its goal of carbon neutrality ahead of its target year. However, we all need to do more.
Preliminary figures from the International Renewable Energy Agency's World Energy Transitions Outlook reveal that the current pace of the global energy transition falls far short of what is needed to stay on the pathway of limiting global warming to 1.5 C above preindustrial levels.
Despite the record-breaking addition of 295 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity last year, with China making the largest contribution, this number must more than triple annually to meet the necessary climate targets.
The International Renewable Energy Agency has identified three main energy transition pillars that require decisive action. These pillars are related to the structures that sustain the energy system globally: physical infrastructure, policy and regulatory architecture, and institutional skills and capabilities that must be aligned with the new system being created.
China's contribution to the global energy transition across all three pillars is indispensable.
As the progress-checking "global stocktake" at the 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or COP28-which will be held in November in the United Arab Emirates - rapidly approaches, the world must be prepared to make a fundamental course correction on energy transition.
We cannot continue with incremental changes if we are to achieve the necessary reductions in carbon emissions to meet climate goals. To accelerate progress, it is essential to shift the focus of global discussions from energy supply to energy demand and to overcome the structural obstacles that impede the transition to a renewables-based energy system.
This shift requires stronger international collaboration, including joint efforts to transfer knowledge, build capacity and direct more funds to developing countries. Within the renewable energy sector, China's expertise is just as important as its supply of solar photovoltaic panels and batteries.
In the face of unprecedented global challenges, the country's resilience can serve as an anchor in stormy seas, providing a much-needed contribution to the foundation for a successful energy transition.
#196
Longi Green Energy Technology, a Chinese photovoltaics company, said its 5-gigawatt solar panel production facility in Ohio, the United States, is expected to be put into operation by the end of this year.
Once operational, the joint venture with US-based clean energy company Invenergy in Licking County of Columbus, Ohio, will manufacture high-quality solar panels and become home to some of the most advanced panel assembly technology in the world, said the company.
Once completed, the facility will deliver up to 5 GW of solar module capacity per year, which is equivalent to half the total US utility-scale solar installations last year and capable of powering nearly 1 million American homes, it said.
An analyst said the facility will help establish a more complete solar power supply chain in the United States as market demand for clean energy grows.
The manufacturing facility will amplify Ohio's role in boosting domestic production of solar panels, as most of the solar value chain exists outside the US, creating scarcity challenges and supply chain bottlenecks, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
It will help bring the highest-quality solar products to the US while increasing and expanding the technology and renewable energy ecosystem in the region, he said.
LONGi said the company's sales in the US accounted for around 2.4 percent of its global revenue last year.
The company has been optimizing its investment internationally and improving its production and operation capabilities worldwide to satisfy the growing market demand outside of China, including increasing investment in its production base in Kuching, Malaysia and completing the upgrade of its production base in Vietnam.
With the introduction of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), the domestic PV manufacturing capacity in the United States is accelerating and many Chinese companies are exploring investments to establish PV factories in the country, said Tan Youru, an analyst from BloombergNEF.
Li Zhenguo, president of LONGi, said going global is a necessary step and the company has been conducting research and evaluations to explore more opportunities in overseas markets.
The complexity of investing and establishing factories in the United States is increasing and the ultimate impact of the IRA is still uncertain, he said.
Li Junfeng, former director of the National Center for Climate Change Strategy and International Cooperation and executive director of the China Energy Research Society, believes that the energy transition goals of China and the United States are aligned.
The IRA illustrates the US government's confidence in the solar power industry while it will also help accelerate the energy transition, he said.
Chinese solar companies should aim higher and have a broader vision, actively expanding their global presence to promote the healthy and sustainable development of the global PV industry, he said.
In addition to LONGi, JinkoSolar announced recently that it will establish a 2GW PV module factory in the US while SPI Energy Co Ltd also plans to establish a silicon wafer factory in the United States, with the first batch of wafers produced by the end of 2023.
According to LONGi, manufacturing capacity in the photovoltaic industry is becoming more decentralized than ever in recent years.
With the IRA introduced by the US, the REPowerEU Plan introduced by the European Commission and the National Program on High Efficiency Solar PV Modules introduced by the Indian government, countries across the globe are eyeing to increase domestic production capacity and reduce import dependence on the renewable energy sector, it said.
Driven by the global consensus on carbon neutrality, the photovoltaic industry, as the most representative and competitive renewable energy source, continued to experience rapid growth in 2022.
According to statistics from the China Photovoltaic Industry Association, global PV installations reached 230 GW in 2022, a year-on-year growth of 35.3 percent. The main demand markets, particularly China and the European Union, witnessed significant growth rates exceeding 50 percent.
In most countries, solar power remains the lowest-cost source of electricity and the Russia-Ukraine conflict has further made the international community aware of the importance of energy security, resorting to solar power more than ever to enhance domestic energy independence, said Lin.
LONGi achieved a revenue of 129 billion yuan ($18.3 billion) in 2022, a year-on-year increase of 60.03 percent. Net profit attributable to shareholders of the listed company rose 63 percent year-on-year to 14.81 billion yuan.
The company's revenue reached 28.32 billion yuan during the first quarter this year, up 52.35 percent year-on-year, and it expects the 2023 revenue to surpass 160 billion yuan.
By the end of 2023, the company plans to achieve an annual production capacity of 190 GW for monocrystalline silicon wafers and 110 GW for monocrystalline cells.
#197
Current chair of ASEAN woos investment, promotes ecosystem for new energy vehicles
There were about a dozen cars on standby at around 8:30 am at the Wuling Motors Indonesia camp during the 42nd ASEAN Summit from May 10-11, out of a fleet of 50 cars.
The other Wuling Air electric vehicles were on duty. The Wuling EVs were in Indonesia to provide commuter services for delegations to and from the summit from May 9-11 in the tourist town of Labuan Bajo in East Nusa Tenggara province.
Over 370 EVs were deployed to provide the biannual summit with transportation, including 282 specifically used for delegates.
Dian Asmahani, brand and marketing director for Wuling Sales Indonesia, said Wuling was proud to be part of the service for the summit, as well as Indonesia's efforts to develop an EV ecosystem both at home and in Southeast Asia.
As with its Group of 20 presidency last year, Indonesia - the current Association of Southeast Asian Nations' chair - employed the summit to promote the development of an EV ecosystem in ASEAN, a key step in its domestic and regional new energy transition to reduce emissions.
An agreement on this would be ratified at the summit, according to Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi earlier this year.
"The theme of the 42nd ASEAN summit is ASEAN Matters: Epicentrum of Growth. As reflected by the use of EVs during the ASEAN summit, Indonesia is keen to accelerate the transition to greener mobility within the region and wants to make ASEAN the epicenter of growth for electric vehicles as well," Asmahani said.
As the official auto partner at the G20 summit held on the resort island of Bali in November 2022, Wuling provided 300 cars for transportation services. For another ASEAN summit scheduled for September this year, many Wuling EVs will also be in service, Asmahani said, adding, "I think Wuling as a car brand wants to actively participate in EV growth and also the enhancement of electrification in Indonesia."
The Indonesian government has announced policies to woo investment for developing an EV industrial chain from upstream to downstream, and it plans to provide incentives for the sales of 200,000 electric motorcycles and 35,900 electric cars by the end of this year.
Asmahani thinks subsidizing 10 percent of the value-added tax for EV buyers since April demonstrates particularly strong support from the government for developing the EV ecosystem.
In 2022, official data showed the Indonesian automotive market saw sales of about 1.048 million units, including over 30,000 Wuling cars, or 2.9 percent. The Wuling Air EV model ranks top in sales in the new energy vehicle segment, accounting for over 78 percent of the total.
The new energy model has turned out to be Indonesian consumers' favorite, boasting cumulative sales of over 8,600 units since its launch in August.
"The Air EV is the newest version of electric vehicles manufactured by SGMW for the world, and Indonesia has become the first station," Shi Guoyong, president director of Wuling, said at its roll-out ceremony at Wuling's production factory in Bekasi, West Java province.
Wuling Motors Indonesia operates as a subsidiary of major Chinese automaker SAIC-GM-Wuling, which is a joint venture between SAIC Motor, General Motors and Liuzhou Wuling Motors based in Liuzhou, South China's Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region.
Currently, Wuling has more than 150 local dealers in Indonesia, with a total of eight types of vehicles produced and sold locally.
In the EV sector, Wuling is not the only Chinese player in Southeast Asia. China's leading EV manufacturer BYD held a groundbreaking ceremony in March for its first car plant in Thailand, while Great Wall Motor, China's leading sport utility vehicle and pickup manufacturer, highlighted its three NEV models at the Malaysia Autoshow 2023 from May 4 to 7.
Looking ahead, Wuling will focus its efforts on the Indonesian market, Asmahani said on May 9 at the Wuling camp in Labuan Bajo. She is confident of Wuling's prospects with the Air EV model in the Indonesian market.
"It is a smart, very good solution for the Indonesian market," she said, noting that apart from being suitable for the road conditions in Indonesia, its price is affordable to Indonesian consumers, which has remained unaffected by inflation.
The car is small, measuring 3 meters in length, 1.5 meters in width and 1.6 meters in height, making it a top choice for driving on Labuan Bajo's two-lane roads leading to the summit's main venue, media center and hotels.
"The car is cute," said Brian Gomgom, public relations manager for Wuling Motors Indonesia. The Wuling camp in Labuan Bajo is staffed with about 80 people, including drivers.
Pointing to a Wuling car painted pristine white, Gomgom explained the detailing on the car's body in addition to the summit logo, saying the special patterns - largely in red and yellow - mark the local culture of Labuan Bajo. Also, the Wuling motto "Shaping Clean Tomorrow "can be seen, he added.
At the summit, Asmahani said Wuling provided services for 13 delegations, keeping three cars in mobile status for each, and operating for 12 hours a day starting from about 8:00 am.
"Being part of the ASEAN summit once again proves our commitment to accelerating green mobility in the global market," she said.
#198
Vice-President Han Zheng has called for stronger cooperation between China and Portugal in the research and development of smart power grid technologies, saying the two sides should work closer together in the promotion of standards and innovation.
Han made the remarks during a visit to a research and development center of Redes Energeticas Nacionais, the Portuguese national energy grid administrator in Lisbon.
He noted the R&D center is an outcome of cooperation of the Portuguese company and China's State Grid Corp and represents a fine example of cooperation between the two nations.
Beijing appreciates the efforts made by Portugal in promoting energy transformation and supporting the development of new energy sectors, he said.
Ana Fontoura Gouveia, the Portuguese Secretary of State for Energy and Climate who accompanied Han during the visit, said ties between Portugal and China are built on a solid foundation and bilateral cooperation in various sectors, especially the economy, have yielded fruitful outcomes.
She noted the center is of major significance to Portugal in that it has strongly supported its energy transition goals.
#199
China should establish a national spot power market and lift the barriers of interprovincial trade to advance power markets that support the country's green energy transition, according to a recent report.
China's power market, after more than two decades of reform, boasts the world's largest installed capacity - twice that of the United States. However, diversified moves are still necessary to support coordination between national and local markets, according to a report on building a unified national power market system in China released by the International Energy Agency in late April.
It is necessary for the government to further reinforce the role of national institutions to supervise market implementation and ensure coordination among national plans, markets and operational protocols to allow more flexible trading arrangements, it said.
According to Jacques Warichet, a researcher from the IEA, China should also step up the deployment of short-term markets to implement an economic dispatch and unlock flexibility from supply and demand resources, as markets are playing a growing role in the power system in China.
The mid to long-term markets, with a duration of one month to one year, are the most developed form of markets in China, with their contracts covering half of the electricity consumed and about four-fifths of the traded volume. The short-term markets, on the other hand, have not achieved their full potential despite the possibilities they bring to unlock flexibility from supply and demand resources, he said.
"In market-based systems, the short-term markets play a central role in price formation and support electricity security," he said.
The IEA believes China has been making big steps towards building a unified national power market system. The goals of peaking carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060 will continue to add momentum, expanding its footprint.
"Spot markets are expanding across China after the first provincial spot market pilots were launched in 2019, but their share in trade remains small and the connection with other established markets is still being completed," Warichet said.
He suggested the government should further step up regional trade coordination through a national market to deliver substantial efficiency benefits and increased resilience. In addition to operational efficiency gains, regional trade improves resource sharing across larger areas while bringing many benefits in terms of resilience and can contribute to reducing needed investments in generation assets for reserve.
Calculations by the IEA show that reductions in operating costs range from 6-12 percent and decreases in carbon dioxide emissions range from 2-10 percent compared with a situation where regional coordination is not improved.
An analyst said increased participation in markets on both the supply and demand sides is expected to continue as the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) aims to give a leading role to markets.
According to Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, power markets can accelerate the decarbonization of the Chinese power sector.
Reducing the carbon intensity of China's electricity is crucial for achieving the government's ambition of peaking carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060, as well as meeting global climate goals, he said.
Accelerating decarbonization and the further deployment of power markets can create a framework in which a carbon pricing mechanism can take effect and achieve the dual carbon goals smoothly, he added.
For China, well-functioning power markets, together with carbon pricing, play a key role in the green transition.
National institutions can play a bigger role together as integrating the existing markets towards a unified national system will require a higher level of coordination, said the report.
The guidance for market design and market supervision by a national authority can secure the future practices and efficient functioning of markets, it said.
#200
The German economy is expected to recover more slowly next year than previously forecast, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said on Monday.
Germany's economy is on course to grow by 0.3 percent this year, and by 1.3 percent next year, according to projections released in the OECD's latest economic survey of the country.
In March, the OECD had predicted GDP growth in 2024 of 1.7 percent, Reuters reported. The forecast for this year was unchanged.
The report called on Berlin to speed up its transition toward a more digital and climate-friendly economy, for example by showing more flexibility on its debt rules to allow for necessary investments.
Inflation, which was 7.4 percent in March, is expected to average 6.6 percent for the year.
The report also warned against expansive fiscal policy in order to shield German competitiveness.
"After 10 years of dynamic export-induced growth, falling unemployment and budget surpluses, the pandemic and the energy crisis showed that Germany has structural weaknesses and urgently needs to accelerate its ecological and digital transformation," the report said.
An aging population was identified as an additional economic challenge, with improvements to training and encouragement of skilled immigration highlighted as possible remedies. "Reducing labor taxes, particularly for low-skilled workers and second earners, facilitating skilled migration, and improving education and training are key to raising labor supply," it said.
OECD Secretary-General Mathias Cormann said at the report's presentation in Berlin, "Germany needs to speed up its green energy transition and the digital transformation of its economy and public administration."
Cormann, who appeared alongside Germany's Economy Minister Robert Habeck and Environment Minister Steffi Lemke, added: "At the same time, rapid population aging is exacerbating labor shortages and increasing spending pressures. Tackling these challenges effectively in a fiscally sustainable way will require well-prioritized and well-targeted public investment."
Green measures have a big role to play in the recovery, with increases in sustainable transport and green research and development, along with carbon pricing, to support vulnerable households and protect social cohesion.
On the same day, the OECD also published its Environmental Performance Review of Germany 2023, which praised the nation's advances in environmental protection during the past decade but said measures to address the challenges of energy needs, climate change and biodiversity need to be accelerated.
The Green Party is a coalition partner in Germany's government and the report praised the country for having "ambitious climate targets with the aim to reach climate neutrality by 2045 and achieve negative emissions after 2050".
It applauded "measures which are historic in size and scope" to deal with the energy crisis, but made 28 recommendations for further steps that could be taken.
Germany is Europe's biggest and most influential economy, so its economic health has major international implications and one of its biggest concerns at the moment is a skilled labor shortage.
The OECD has downgraded Germany's ranking in the world when it comes to its ability to attract skilled workers.
"It is now a problem that exists across industries," Stefan Hardege, labor market expert at the German Chambers of Commerce, told German broadcaster DW.
"A wide variety of professions are affected ... when you look at the 2.5 million unemployed people in Germany and you see all these vacancies, the question arises as to why they don't cancel each other out. We often see that the qualifications of the unemployed do not match the qualifications that companies are looking for."
#201
Chinese scientists and their international counterparts have published an assessment of the carbon mitigation potential of rooftop photovoltaics (RPVs) in China, noting that they could be offsetting about 2.72 billion tonnes CO2 in 2030.
According to the study, published recently in the journal Nature Communications, RPVs are important in achieving energy transition and climate goals, especially in cities with high building density and energy consumption. Estimating RPV carbon mitigation potential at the city level of an entire large country is challenging given difficulties in assessing rooftop area.
Researchers from Nanjing Normal University and other institutions in China, as well as those from the United States and Singapore, used multi-source geospatial data and machine learning regression to identify a rooftop area of nearly 66,000 square kilometers for 354 Chinese cities in 2020, representing about 3.63 billion tonnes of CO2 mitigation.
Considering urban land expansion and power mix transformation, the researchers estimated a potential CO2 mitigation of about 2.72 to 3.63 billion tonnes in 2030, when China plans to reach its carbon peak.
The study also suggested that it is necessary to further explore how to improve the flexibility of RPV energy production, such as combining RPVs with energy storage technology to achieve continuous power supply at night and reduce fluctuation on the power grid.
#202
China has been playing an important role in global green development and has become a significant force in promoting the global transition to green energy, said industry experts.
China is now a key force in promoting international energy cooperation and advancing green and low-carbon development, said Wu Xuan, chief operating officer of the Global Energy Interconnection Development and Cooperation Organization, during a forum in Beijing last month.
China has been sharing its accumulated clean energy and power interconnection project technology and experience with different countries through international cooperation in recent years via its GEIDCO initiative, which has been actively building cooperation platforms to accelerate the implementation of engineering projects worldwide, especially in countries and regions participating in the Belt and Road Initiative, Wu said.
Established in China in 2016, GEIDCO, with the aim of building a globally interconnected smart grid with ultrahigh voltage grids as its backbone, is a nongovernmental, nonprofit international organization with member firms, associations, institutions and individuals dedicated to promoting sustainable development of energy worldwide.
It is the first international organization in the energy field initiated and established by China. As of now, the total number of members of the cooperative organization stands at 1,302, covering 141 countries and regions and building an international cooperation network based on consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits.
According to Wu, with a focus on neighboring countries, as well as countries and regions participating in the BRI, Beijing has been vigorously promoting clean energy and power interconnection projects in recent years.
Several transnational interconnection projects, such as those involving China-South Korea, China-Myanmar-Bangladesh, and Ethiopia-Gulf countries, have received support from local governments with positive progress seen, he said.
An analyst said the organization has been playing a key role in further facilitating the world's shift toward a green and low-carbon future.
"In the past seven years, GEIDCO has transformed global energy interconnectivity into a roadmap for global energy transition and sustainable development," said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
It has significantly improved the electrification level of the whole society, providing a fundamental solution to address the long-term contradiction between development and emission reductions faced by countries worldwide, Lin said.
As this year marks the 10th anniversary of the BRI, Wu said the organization will specifically target regions such as Central Asia, Southeast Asia, West Asia and North Africa based on the construction layout of the initiative.
"We will increase our research efforts and actively promote relevant network planning and projects to facilitate their implementation," he said.
Domestic companies, including State Grid Corp of China and China Three Gorges Corp, have also been actively laying out clean energy and grid business in the countries.
According to Zhang Kun, vice-general manager of the Beijing branch of China Three Gorges Corp, the company has been continuously strengthening energy cooperation with countries and regions participating in the BRI, relying on technical advantages in clean energy such as hydropower and wind power, as well as project management experience.
Some of the major clean energy projects in countries in Latin America and Africa as well as Europe and North America have contributed well to local energy development and electricity access, while assisting in the energy transition and power interconnectivity of countries involved in the BRI, Zhang said.
Paul van Son, head of the Desertec Industrial Initiative, said cooperation with GEIDCO has further facilitated renewable energy development, grid interconnectivity and energy storage technology in local regions, bringing clean energy to the world while connecting energy from source to demand.
In addition to the power sector, the hydrogen industry has also received increasing attention in recent years, and we hope to expand our cooperation in the above-mentioned fields in the coming years, he said.
#204
Proportion of country's clean electricity expected to reach 70 percent of total terminal consumption by 2060
While China has come up with the world's largest power grid, its power sector needs further reform to ensure sufficient power supplies amid the country's green transition, industry experts said.
China's power market, after more than two decades of reform, boasts the world's largest installed capacity - twice that of the United States. However, diversified moves are still necessary to further facilitate the large-scale application of clean energy nationwide, said Shu Yinbiao, president of the International Electrotechnical Commission as well as an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
The proportion of China's green electrical energy is expected to reach 70 percent of the country's total terminal energy consumption by 2060, compared with its current green electrification rate of 27 percent, which is still 5 percent higher than the global average, Shu said during a high-end power market forum held by the China Electricity Council in Beijing recently.
Transformation of the power sector plays a critical role in facilitating the government's ambition to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, he said.
The electrification rate refers to the proportion of electricity consumption by all sectors of the national economy and people's daily lives, and its improvement will help reduce pollutants and develop energy utilization efficiency.
China has been vigorously facilitating the replacement of coal and oil with electricity in the fields of industry, transportation, construction and agriculture as well as in rural areas, aiming to build a new type of power system featuring a gradual increase in the proportion of new energy resources and promoting the large-scale optimization of clean power resources.
The National Energy Administration began soliciting public opinion on the development of the country's new type of power system in January. In a blue book released by the administration, it emphasizes the importance of making new energy resources a reliable alternative to their traditional peers.
It also vows to further step up the integrated development of power generation, the grid network and energy storage, in addition to research on clean energy resource evaluation and power prediction technology.
Shu added that non-fossil energy now accounts for around 15 percent of total energy consumption, still a long way from its target of having 80 percent of its total energy mix from non-fossil fuel sources by 2060, according to a high-level policy framework for achieving peak carbon and carbon neutrality published by the State Council, the country's Cabinet.
Shu said more efforts should be made to improve the energy price mechanism as well as accelerate the deep integration of electrification, digitalization and informatization to comprehensively elevate the intelligent and efficient level of terminal energy consumption.
"China has come up with the world's largest clean energy system with record highs in the amount of electricity traded and the number of market players during the past two decades, while the rapid development of the power industry has also facilitated the nationwide application of new energies at the same time," he said.
"For the years to come, it is necessary to strengthen subsidized purchases of new energy sources and come up with incentive policies and market mechanisms to promote a high proportion of new energy consumption and high-level development," he added.
Shu also emphasized the importance of the use of long-term power contracts in supporting the sustained expansion of renewables, adding that sustained development of renewables also requires a combination of localized projects and West-to-East power transmission.
For the power market in China, enlarging power balancing areas and establishing market-based dispatch play an important role in optimizing grid operation for renewables integration, he said.
Meanwhile, Shu said it is as important to give full play to the role of coal power as a cornerstone in China's energy mix to ensure domestic energy security, as China has been taking orderly steps to increase advanced coal production in recent years to ensure sufficient power supply during peak hours and extreme weather, aiming to have coal play an important role as an emergency backup.
The Rocky Mountain Institute, an independent nonprofit organization focused on the transition to clean energy, said the power sector - which contributes about 40 percent of the country's carbon emissions today - is at the heart of climate change solutions and the energy transition.
The broad application of digital technology and artificial intelligence is vital for enhancing the power grid's ability to cope with supply and demand fluctuations, it said.
The International Energy Agency said in a recent report that power system flexibility is the most important cornerstone of a fundamentally transformed power system.
It believes utilizing advanced flexibility measures such as smart electric vehicle charging, demand-side response and electricity storage can support the reliable integration of extremely high shares of variable generation without any substantial variable renewable energy curtailment in 2035, while simultaneously reducing power system operating costs between 2 to 11 percent and reducing the need for fossil fuel generation capacity by up to 30 percent.
Chen Guoping, deputy director of State Grid Corp of China, said conventional power supplies will play more of a role in regulating and guaranteeing power, while new energy sources will gradually become the main body of electricity consumption.
The rise of low-cost wind and solar power, deployment of distributed energy resources and increasing digitalization are accelerating changes in power systems in China, Chen said during the forum.
Power system flexibility is also a crucial element for a successful transformation of the energy sector and growing proportions of wind and solar power in China can be facilitated by grid infrastructure, demand-side responses and electricity storage. Changes to the market, policy and regulatory frameworks are crucial for unlocking flexibility, he added.
#205
The recent visit of French President Emmanuel Macron and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen to China is bringing many opportunities for Sino-EU bilateral relations. A 60-member business delegation also came along with the top leaders, including leaders of many world-renowned French/European companies such as Airbus, Louis Vuitton and EDF, showing the good wishes of the French political and business fields for repairing and developing bilateral economic and trade relations.
Against the current global backdrop, such efforts from the EU are notable. In addition to economic and trade exchanges and geopolitical issues, another goal of Macron's visit is to recommit to a common framework of action on major international issues such as the fight against climate change and the protection of biodiversity. Indeed, as the global climate crisis spirals out of control, consolidating and developing bilateral cooperation on climate action is equally urgent, not to mention that future prospects of climate cooperation between the two sides shine brighter globally thanks to the good foundation of previous cooperation and the consensus on the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
Tie key to climate change
Sino-EU cooperation in addressing climate change has always been a model for the international community. Apart from a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2003, the two sides in 2005 made it a norm for high-level dialogues and multilevel cooperation to this end by inking the Partnership on Climate Change, with the cooperation scope expanding to carbon sequestration, greenhouse gas emissions, low-carbon economic transformation and other fields.
A monumental achievement in global climate negotiations, the Paris Agreement is also a fruitful result of Sino-EU cooperation. In 2010, amid the failure to make substantial progress in the negotiations at the Copenhagen Conference of the Parties, China and the EU issued a joint statement establishing a "climate hotline" between leaderships to coordinate positions in multilateral climate negotiations and maintain closer communication on relevant policies and cooperation.
Before the launch of the UN Climate Change Conference in 2015, China and conference host France had actively engaged in dialogue on relevant preparatory work. At the same time, officials from China and the United States signed China-US joint statement on climate change. With such efforts from major emitters, the signing of the Paris Agreement was finally achieved.
In 2017, then-US president Donald Trump announced a withdrawal from the Paris Agreement. Though the current US administration rejoined the agreement in 2021, the US move in 2017 brought severe damage to the progress of the agreement. However, China and the EU were still working together to take global action on climate change further.
For example, after the US move in 2017, Macron made a special trip to China to reiterate the significance of the cooperation between China and the EU on climate issues. In 2018, the top leaderships of China and the EU signed a new cooperation agreement, reaffirming their willingness to cooperate to jointly promote global emission reductions and sustainable development.
China and the EU then successively proposed higher climate action targets. In 2019, the EU Green Deal was unveiled, in which the EU said it will reduce greenhouse gas emissions 55 percent by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. In September 2020, China announced its dual carbon goals. Such moves have had a ripple effect, pushing South Korea, Japan and other countries to raise their emission reduction targets.
In recent years, due to global woes such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the global economy has faltered amid recession and high inflation. There has also been rising unilateralism and a sentiment of anti-globalization, which profoundly affected geopolitical trends. Such a series of drastic changes have brought unprecedented challenges to China-EU relations. Facing such headwinds, the EU adjusted its relations with China, and deemed China "a partner for cooperation and negotiation, an economic competitor and a systemic rival", indicating that China-EU relations have stepped into a new period and the partnership on climate issues was no longer simple.
Green turf war
With the advances in green technology, the expansion in their scale of production and application, and the strong promotion by governments using taxes and subsidies, the economic growth model based on fossil fuel energy may usher in an inflection point in the near future, while emission reductions and green technology will become new driving forces for economic growth. The competition between the EU and China in green fields will become increasingly fierce.
At the beginning of this year, the US Inflation Reduction Act came into effect, kicking off a turf war in green business among major economies. The bill announced about $370 billion in climate and clean energy investments, including a number of subsidies and tax incentives for players operating in the US. Such large-scale support weighed on both China and the EU due to pressure from green investment and production outflows. The pressure on the EU is so pressing that the European Commission has even proposed the Net Zero Industry Act, a panicked response to restrict green imports and loosen regulations on state aid, which was deemed as a move contradicting free market rules, raising concerns within the EU that the move may distort the unified market.
The EU is also doing this to secure its supply chains. The global supply chain crisis caused by the pandemic and the energy crisis resulting from the Russia-Ukraine conflict have deepened concerns over relying on overseas supply chains. Thus, the EU began to reduce its dependence on imports from single countries amid its energy and sustainable transition moves.
The EU's current moves, as we see, are more like overreactions and are not constructive. As Macron said during his visit to China, the growing concerns have created an "inescapable spiral of mounting tensions", which is not conducive to resolving the issue. Eyeing a brighter future for China-EU climate cooperation, there are three keywords of great significance - competition, security and trust - in which security and trust are the prerequisites for building a healthy competitive relationship.
It is important to know that China and the EU will inevitably compete in key green market areas. But if the two sides can restore trust, follow international trade guidelines with the WTO as the core, and form a relationship of healthy competition and cooperation based on win-win thinking, healthy competition between the two sides will be extremely good news for the world and the climate struggle. It will also help promote the accelerated development of the world's sustainable economic transformation.
Strong complementarity
China and the EU have strong complementarity in developing the green economy. The EU has first-mover advantages in terms of technology and operating schemes, while China boasts advantages in market size and lower costs. Cooperation between the two sides can greatly promote the progress of green technology, stimulate the development of relevant markets and reduce the green premium, thereby accelerating the process of global climate action. Specifically, there are four key areas for cooperation in the future.
The first is to give play to the complementary advantages and promote the energy transformation of both sides. In the process of future energy transition and sustainable economic transformation, China and the EU have huge space for cooperation. Green hydrogen technology is a good example. The EU regards clean hydrogen energy as the core of Europe's future green economic competitiveness, and investment in green hydrogen technology research and development is ahead of its global peers. As Chinese manufacturers have strong low-cost advantages in the production of hydrogen energy equipment, the manufacturing costs of some key equipment are only 40 percent of that of EU companies. Therefore, consolidating and expanding cooperation in the field of energy will create huge economic and environmental benefits in the future.
This direction has been confirmed by the large energy deals inked between Chinese and French companies promoted by Macron's visit.
The second is to strengthen negotiations in the areas of carbon emissions trading and border regulation rules. China in 2021 launched its carbon trading market, which marks an important achievement of China-EU climate cooperation. The two sides have been working on building emissions trading platforms since 2014.Over the years, the EU has provided China plenty of policy advice and technical support for relevant designs and implementation through policy dialogue, training and information exchanges. However, China's carbon emissions market is still in its infancy. The EU remains an important role model and partner in this field for China. In addition, the EU's carbon border adjustment mechanism will be fully implemented from 2026, and China and the EU should actively work on carbon market connectivity and border regulation rules to lay the foundation for the formation of international carbon emissions trading and related rules.
The third is to jointly lead the circular economy transformation of the international community. China and the EU are dependent on each other in the development of the circular economy. In January 2018, China and other countries imposed restrictions on solid waste imports, which forced Europe to face the problem of domestic waste disposal and reform its consumption system, which partly promoted the release of the EU's circular economy action plan. The program makes future products entering Europe face higher sustainability standards. The program, in turn, will have a profound impact on the manufacturing of exports in China, promoting the improvement of China's circular economy standard legislation and management system. Taking this as an example, if China and the EU can actively engage in dialogue and coordinate policies and actions in the area of circular economy, they will play a leading international role in driving the global circular economy transformation.
Fourth, the two sides should work together to develop sustainable finance standards. To guide global investors to identify and access green investment opportunities, the EU launched the International Platform for Sustainable Finance in October 2019, with both China and the EU as founding members. At present, the cooperation platform has achieved many results, all of which have an impact on guiding global green investment. In the future, with the IPSF as a vital cooperative platform, China and the EU should continue to expand cooperation in the field of sustainable finance standards and transitional finance, and jointly promote the effective growth of sustainable financing globally.
In October, China and the EU will celebrate the 20th anniversary of their comprehensive strategic partnership. Despite the challenges and obstacles, the vision of China and the EU to promote global sustainable development is the same. Addressing climate change is a major issue related to the destiny of mankind, and China and the EU should further enhance mutual trust and cooperation, jointly become a leading force in international climate action and make positive contributions to the sustainable development of human society.
#206
China's technology and financial capital have been playing an important role in Brazil's clean energy transition and cooperation between the two countries in sustainable development is expected to continue deepening in the years to come, industry experts said on Thursday.
As Brazil has been vigorously developing wind and solar energy in recent years, with the proportion of renewable energy in Brazil's total energy consumption set to reach 45 percent by 2030, Chinese companies will play a greater role in the local new energy layout, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
To address the challenges of an energy crisis and climate change, Brazil needs to seek more international partners to collaborate in developing its abundant green energy resources. The deepening cooperation between China and Brazil in renewable energy will provide new impetus for Brazil's economic transformation, he said.
Chen Daobiao, general manager of the Brazilian branch of State Grid Corp of China, said Brazil's abundant renewable power generation resources and China's mature and reliable equipment technology will lead to enormous potential for cooperation between the two countries in the field of renewable energy.
Brazilian companies have also been stepping up cooperation with Chinese partners in recent years.
Brazilian mining company Vale recently announced the signing of seven agreements with different Chinese partners to strengthen its relationship with China, including a project investment agreement for the Morowali project in Indonesia, two comprehensive strategic cooperation agreements signed with leading Chinese banks and two agreements to strengthen cooperation with Chinese universities.
"As a partner of China for 50 years and a reliable supplier of raw materials to the Chinese steel industry, Vale has a long-term commitment to the Chinese market," said Alexandre Silva D'Ambrosio, the company's executive vice-president of corporate and external affairs.
"We will continue to offer high-quality iron ore products to the country to support the continued development of its economy and further deepen our strategic partnership in sustainable mining and low-carbon solutions."
Brazilian mining company Companhia Brasileira de Metalurgia e Mineracao, or CBMM, also said recently that the company's business in China has grown rapidly and is confident in its cooperation with CITIC Metal, a subsidiary of CITIC Group's advanced materials sector.
CBMM announced its plan to shift 35 percent of its business toward the new energy battery and electric vehicle industry by 2030, making it the company's second-largest industry.
According to Zhu Yi, a senior analyst for metals and mining at Bloomberg Intelligence, as China's steel industry aims to peak carbon emissions peak by 2025 and cut carbon emissions by 30 percent from the peak level in 2030, steel mills could use better quality iron ore or produce steel using green hydrogen-based direct reduced iron or DRI in combination with renewable energy-based electric furnaces.
As Chinese steel mills source more than 70 percent of their iron ore needs from overseas suppliers, including Vale, collaboration with miners could enable them to take into consideration the iron ore supply when designing their path to reduced carbon emissions, she said.
#207
Global mining giant BHP said it will continue investing in China and deepen its partnerships with local players in the country, as demand for metals including copper and nickel is expected to rise as China goes full throttle into its green energy transition.
Demand for copper, nickel and potash is expected to increase significantly to support the megatrends of decarbonization and electrification in China, which will be providing massive opportunities for global mining companies like BHP, said Vandita Pant, chief commercial officer of BHP.
"BHP aims to grow its future-facing commodities, such as copper, nickel and potash, over the coming year, with copper for renewable energy, nickel for electric vehicles, potash for sustainable farming, and iron ore and metallurgical coal for the steel needed for global infrastructure and the energy transition," she said.
"We expect more cooperation with China in the years to come to facilitate its accelerated energy transition, continued economic development and improvement in living standards."
Estimates by BHP show that over the next 30 years, steel demand will almost double, global copper production will need to more than double and primary nickel production will increase nearly fourfold to power the next generation of battery technology, compared to the last 30 years. In addition, potash demand will increase to drive higher agricultural yields as land use competition intensifies.
An analyst said China's demand for these metals is expected to continue to grow as the country transitions to cleaner forms of energy and transportation, presenting a significant opportunity for global mining companies to expand their operations in China and supply the country with the metals needed to meet its goals of reducing emissions and transitioning to a more sustainable economy, said Zhu Yi, a senior analyst for metals and mining at Bloomberg Intelligence.
According to Pant, BHP will soon celebrate the shipping of 3 billion metric tons of iron ore to China, a major milestone between BHP and its customers and partners in the Chinese steel industry.
"China's exceptional achievements to date have improved the economic and social well-being of its population. This change has been unprecedented in terms of scale and speed," said Pant.
"Based on the current robust cooperation with China, we are positive about the demand outlook in the second half of this year and into 2024, as strengthening activity in China on the back of recent policy decisions is expected to drive stronger demand for the commodities we produce.
"We now have even greater conviction that China will be a stabilizing force for global economic growth over the remainder of this year thanks to its pro-growth policies. We already see positive early signs coming through in the property sector, and in terms of improved business and consumer sentiment, and more lending and credit being provided," she said.
BHP signed an agreement in March for the piloting of carbon capture and utilization technology with China's HBIS Group Co Ltd - one of the world's largest steelmakers and a major iron ore customer of BHP. The two parties will trial pilot-scale demonstrations of carbon capture and utilization technologies at HBIS' steel operations in China to develop and test technologies that can be integrated into steel production processes to reduce carbon emissions.
It has also signed memorandums of understanding with two of China's leading copper producers - China Copper and Daye Nonferrous - in March, to deepen collaboration to develop a more sustainable and responsible copper value chain to leverage their expertise in reducing the environmental footprint, improving materials and energy efficiency and managing waste streams in copper production.
"While BHP supplies the growing market, it is equally important for us to do so in a more sustainable and responsible way," said Pant.
"Collaboration with key industry value chain partners plays a vital role and BHP is wholeheartedly dedicated to supporting our partners to decarbonize parts of our value chain."
#208
With a presence in 46 countries, SPIC is one of the five largest power generators in the world, with over 200 GW of installed capacity. The company ranks first in the world in solar energy, second in wind energy, and among the top ten in hydroelectric power generation. More than 60% of the energy generated by the company comes from clean sources, and it has ambitious goals for the future: by 2025, it hopes that 70% of its energy will come from renewable sources, and by 2035, it aims for that number to reach 85%.
SPIC Global employs more than 130,000 people worldwide and has projects and assets worth more than $220 billion. In China, the installed energy capacity is over 195 GW, and outside of China, the company has assets totaling 7,650 MW, with Brazil being one of the most strategic markets for the company, with the highest installed capacity of 2,764 MW.
With a consolidated and expanding presence in the world, the company is now investing in the energy transition to low-carbon sources. During the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics, for example, SPIC provided 150 hydrogen buses with a range of up to 650 kilometers under standard conditions, 20 minutes per refueling, and a reduction of 70kg of CO2 for every 100km traveled.
SPIC has also cooperated with more than 100 large companies in clean energy sectors and technologies such as wind and hydropower, nuclear power, fuel cells, hydrogen buses, battery management, and energy. By 2025, SPIC could provide direct supply of 100 billion kWh of green electricity to large users.
Energy Transition
SPIC is during Phase 2 of its Energy Transition strategy, and the company is also developing innovation initiatives in different energy sources, such as leading efficiency photovoltaic cells, China's first pilot recycling line for photovoltaic modules, and a vertically integrated photovoltaic industry chain.
In Brazil, SPIC Brasil has assets totaling almost 3 GW of installed capacity, in different energy sources spread throughout the country. The São Simão Hydroelectric Plant, in Brazilian state of Goiás, is the company's largest asset in the country, with an installed capacity of 1,710 MW and annual generation of 10.5 GWH, demonstrating Brazil's great potential for this type of generation.
São Simão HPP will receive over BRL 1 billion in investments over the next 10 years, focusing on modernization and expansion of installed capacity to make it more competitive, efficient, and secure in the national scenario.
SPIC's innovation-oriented energy transition includes an investment model that moves from heavy to light assets; traditional energy to new power, to Power to X and integrations; and from a project portfolio in hydro, thermal, wind, solar, nuclear, gas, biomass to green transportation. In addition to cooperation with large customers, intelligent distribution networks, clean heating, integrated energy development, and ecology.
SPIC Brasil also operates in two wind farms in the northeast of Brazil - Millennium and Vale dos Ventos - which together generate more than 150 GWh of energy annually, capacity that can supply about 120 thousand households. In August 2020, the company entered the LNG (liquefied natural gas) market in Brazil, acquiring a 33% stake in the Gas Natural Açu (state of RJ) projects - GNA I and GNA II - which should add up to 3 GW in installed capacity of the company in the country in the coming years. In 2022, we entered the solar power generation market in the country with two greenfield solar projects in the Northeast of Brazil, Panati (state of CE, municipality of Jaguaretama) and Marangatu (state of PI, municipality of Brasileira). The two projects will have an installed capacity of 738 MW and will supply more than 900 thousand households with clean and sustainable energy.
Brazil is one of the most strategic markets for SPIC Global, with great potential for development in the energy transition. The company has projects in different energy matrices spread throughout the country and planned investments of 1 billion reais in the São Simão Hydropower Plant in state of Goiás. The modernization and expansion of the installed capacity are part of the 'Mission Future' project, which should move the Brazilian industry specialized in equipment, services, and cutting-edge technology.
#209
Coal to play larger role as emergency backup power source
Most additions made to the coal industry in China last year involved plants with improved levels of safety and efficiency to replace high-energy-consuming and outdated facilities built during the 20th century, industry experts said.
Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, said, "The nation consumed more coal and built more coal capacity last year, with most of the newly installed capacity replacing obsolete facilities and ensuring sufficient energy supplies amid the country's green transition.
"This year, the replacement of outdated coal capacity has accelerated, and the government has also taken steps in recent years to increase advanced coal production to ensure sufficient power supply, with the aim of coal playing a larger role as an emergency backup power source."
A green energy transition does not mean shutting down all coal plants overnight, Lin said.
Energy security must always come first, and the exit process should be prioritized. For example, if local heat and electricity supply cannot keep pace with demand for a time, there is no reason to close production facilities, Lin said.
He added that phasing out the use of coal in China is "more of a gradual and sophisticated process, rather than applying an emergency brake".
Statistics from financial media outlet Yicai show that by March 9, authorities in Hunan, Heilongjiang, Anhui, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Shandong and Hubei provinces had closed more than 90 coal power units as part of plans to phase out coal-fired plants in 2022 and this year. Most of this outdated capacity involves smaller units.
On the other hand, many of the nation's newly approved coal-fired projects comprise large generating units to meet future growth in power demand and large-scale access to new energy sources.
In December, China Three Gorges Corp launched a multibillion-dollar renewable and fossil-fuel energy project in Inner Mongolia autonomous region, consisting of 8 gigawatts of solar power and 4 GW of wind power capacity, as well as 4 GW of coal-fired power capacity, plus energy storage.
The project is expected to ensure steady power output and grid operation. The fluctuating output of renewable energy and coal can also help supplement wind and solar power during times of peak demand. Last year, China's peak capacity hit a record 1,290 GW, a rise of nearly 20 percent from two years earlier.
On completion, the project will deliver about 40 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity to the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region every year. More than half of this total will comprise clean energy - equivalent to saving about 6 million metric tons of standard coal and reducing carbon dioxide emissions by about 16 million tons.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said coal, a primary energy source for China, will ensure secure energy supplies.
He added that carbon peaking and carbon neutrality are not incompatible with energy security. The reliance on coal is temporary, as emerging forms of green power generation have not been able to cover all the growth in demand, but coal consumption will start to decline year-on-year.
Global leader
Thermal power capacity, which includes coal- and natural gas-fired power plants, rose by 2.7 percent to just over 1,332 GW last year, according to the China Electricity Council, an industry body. Renewable energy capacity growth was much steeper, with hydropower and solar power rising by 5.8 percent and 28.1 percent, respectively, to 413.5 GW and 392.6 GW.
Wind power increased by 11.2 percent to 365.4 GW, while nuclear power capacity rose by 4.3 percent to 55.5 GW, the council said.
China plans to install another 160 GW of solar and wind energy capacity this year. The nation's total installed generation capacity for renewable energy now exceeds 1,200 GW, with its hydropower, wind power, solar power and biomass power generation capacity ranking first globally, according to the National Development and Reform Commission, the country's top economic planner.
This might be why some climate experts and independent groups tracking carbon emissions believe that such emissions in China may have fallen last year and may continue to drop, despite the rising use of coal.
The International Energy Agency said it expects China's carbon emissions to remain broadly flat, while Carbon Monitor estimates that the nation's emissions dropped by 1.5 percent last year, The Wall Street Journal reported. Carbon Monitor is an international initiative that uses 10 research groups to provide regularly updated, science-based estimates of daily carbon dioxide emissions in different countries.
In November, Global Carbon Project, a research consortium used by the UN to produce annual data focused on emissions, forecast that China's emissions fell by 0.9 percent last year.
The China Electricity Council said power demand in the nation is expected to rise by 6 percent this year, with much of it met by wind, solar and nuclear power generation, which are expected to account for more than half of the country's power generation capacity by the end of the year.
Luo said coal-fired power additions are unlikely to see the biggest capacity increases in China this year, as solar and wind will witness significant growth. Emissions resulting from coal power generation will gradually plateau before declining, as long as nonfossil fuel power sources continue to increase in importance, and demand for electricity stabilizes, he added.
"As a result, the ever-increasing proportion of renewable energy will result in coal plants playing more of a supportive role, and there is a high chance that such plants might operate below capacity with lower emissions than some industry observers expect," Luo said.
China's installed thermal power generation capacity rose by 2.7 percent to nearly 1,332.40 million kilowatts by the end of last year. In comparison, the nation's installed power generation capacity rose by 7.8 percent year-on-year to just over 2,564.05 million kW, National Bureau of Statistics data show.
Thermal power generation, which largely relies on coal, rose by just 1.4 percent in China last year, while activity in the two largest coal-burning industries, crude steel and cement production, witnessed falls of 1.7 percent and 10.5 percent, respectively, the bureau said.
Last year, the operating hours at China's coal plants fell by eight hours on average, while the use of solar power generation rose by 56 hours on average, China Electricity Council figures show.
This trend is accelerating. In the first two months of this year, power generation in China rose by 0.7 percent year-on-year to 1.35 trillion kWh, with thermal power generation falling by 2.3 percent year-on-year, the National Bureau of Statistics said.
Luo said that like the China Three Gorges Corp project in Inner Mongolia, many of the nation's new coal plants are designed to provide backup rather than baseload power (generation sources available 24 hours a day). This power will support new large-scale wind and solar parks being built in deserts and plains, which will be connected by transmission lines to coastal industrial centers.
The transformation of coal, together with other technologies including carbon capture and storage, will further facilitate the green transition, Luo said.
CCUS, which offers a way to reduce emissions from sectors that are hard to decarbonize, remains one of the most effective methods for China to achieve significant emissions cuts. The government has also been working to bridge the gap between developing coal and curbing emissions through more investment in cleaner coal technologies.
A report released last year by energy company Shell said China, with an estimated 2,400 gigatons of capacity, has significant geological potential for storing carbon - second only to the United States.
Song Hailiang, chairman of China Energy Engineering Group Co, said that combined with the development of CCUS, China should work to accelerate the transformation of coal power generation. It should also develop the technologies to promote the clean and efficient use of such generation to ensure energy security and achieve green development.
Innovations could be made to design standards and pricing mechanisms for coal power, along with advances in technological research and development, Song said.
The government has said it will continue to strengthen coal's basic supporting role and take steps to increase advanced coal production, while accelerating the development of new energy systems to support the nation's green transition.
At the two sessions, which closed on March 13, the Government Work Report emphasized that coal continued to play its role as a primary energy source in China over the past year.
Advanced coal capacity has been added to further support power generation and heating supply enterprises in ensuring reliable energy supplies, the report said.
Song said that in recent years, China has optimized its coal power structure while eliminating outdated production capacity.
Coal remains an important part of the economy and will play an irreplaceable role in achieving power peak regulation and ensuring the safe and reliable supply of energy, he added.
#210
The United Nations Development Programme and Industrial Securities Co Ltd jointly unveiled 18 Investment Opportunity Areas (IOAs) with the potential to generate both Sustainable Development Goals impact and financial returns in renewable energy and the circular economy in China.
The 18 areas were identified in the second phase of the China SDG Investor Map, which was co-developed by the dual and focuses on sectors concerning carbon neutrality, particularly China's targets of peaking carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and realizing carbon neutrality before 2060.
One of the IOAs, for example, is furthering the charging infrastructure for electric vehicles.
More charging points make recharging EVs more convenient and encourage purchases, it said. Charging points can also be used to supply electricity from vehicle batteries to the grid, turning EVs into mobile power storage units.
It said, however, public and private charging points in China are failing to keep up with the output of EVs, and there is "huge space for growth" in the charging infrastructure.
By 2020, there were 1.68 million of charging points in China, it said. It is estimated that by 2026, China will need over 10 million charging points.
The launch of the Map came shortly after the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released its sixth and latest report, stating that the world "is in a critical decade for climate action".
"The latest IPCC report put out its starkest warning yet - that to ensure a sustainable livable future, critical decisions and actions must happen now to halve emissions by 2030. Scaled up financing is an enabler to our efforts to tackle climate change and the other 16 SDGs connected to it," stressed Fabienne Michaux, director of SDG Impact, a flagship initiative of UNDP.
Focusing on the carbon neutral sector in China, the Phase II Map provides the information needed to help move closer to the 2030 Agenda, she said.
The launch event brought together 50 government entities, think tanks, financial institutions and civil societies in sectors concerning carbon neutrality. Discussion aimed at exchanging ideas on how to find ways to take advantage of the potential investment opportunities identified by the Map.
"The challenge is not one of the availability of funding, but rather how funding is being prioritized," said Beate Trankmann, UNDP resident representative in China.
"Redirecting around just 1 percent of global financial assets would be enough to finance the global energy transition needed to keep the goal of 1.5 degrees alive. This should not be considered a cost. It is an investment in our collective future," she added.
By sharing research capabilities and results globally, the Map helps bridge the information gap between the industry and the investors, and provides an important reference for domestic and foreign investors to participate in sustainable investment in China, said Yang Huahui, chairman of Industrial Securities Co Ltd.
#211
Nuclear power should play a more prominent role in achieving the nation's carbon neutrality goals by more applications in energy-intensive sectors, while also serving as a fundamental power source in the large-scale development of clean energy, said a political adviser on the sidelines of this year's two sessions.
Lu Tiezhong, assistant general manager of China National Nuclear Corp and a member of 14th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, called for boosting the utilization of nuclear power in more energy-intensive sectors, from petrochemicals to steel, as well as heating, seawater desalination and isotope production, as China goes full throttle into its green energy transition.
High-temperature gas-cooled reactors, for example - with high inherent safety levels and steam parameters - can provide integrated energy solutions for industrial steam, hydrogen and electricity used in multiple industries, Lu said.
One high-temperature gas-cooled reactor can provide 3,600 metric tons of high-temperature steam per hour. When matched with thermal-chemical hydrogen production plants, it can help reduce emissions of 3.42 million tons of carbon dioxide compared with a traditional thermal power unit. It can also be equipped with petrochemical as well as other industrial processes for higher-quality development, he added.
An analyst said the application of nuclear energy for heating, steam and power supply is the preferred solution to allow the petrochemical industry to face the dual challenges of ensuring stable supply as well as carrying out clean and low-carbon transformation.
Nuclear power is a more stable and reliable type of clean energy compared with solar and wind power, which can be intermittent due to changing weather conditions, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
The application of nuclear power will be an important means of boosting China's green development. However, safety should always come first and further efforts are still needed to advance technologies in both construction and operation, he said.
In addition to nuclear power's role of accelerating the decarbonization of energy-intensive industries, Lu suggested the application of nuclear power in provinces that are developing solar and wind power on a large scale as a base load power supply to support steady power output and as utilization of a renewable energy base.
The development of China's nuclear power sector should be gauged not only in terms of the number of units and scale, but also the advances of nuclear technology and green transition, he said.
#212
Germany is set to lose up to 900 billion euros (960 billion US dollars) by 2050 due to climate change related damages to its economy, according to a study published Monday by Germany's Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action (BMWK) and the Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Nuclear Safety and Consumer Protection (BMUV).
Even the best-case scenario calculating with only a moderate rise in temperatures forecasts losses of around 280 billion euros in the same period.
In addition to financially measurable effects, there will be "numerous health impairments, deaths from heat waves and flooding, a strain on ecosystems, a loss of biodiversity, and a reduction in quality of life", the ministries said.
"Climate change is already having severe economic consequences today," parliamentary state secretary Stefan Wenzel said. "Every euro invested in climate protection reduces the economic costs that could arise in the future as a result of extreme events."
Hurricanes, floods, and other natural disasters inflicted damages worth 270 billion US dollars worldwide in 2022, according to recent figures by German reinsurer Munich Re. Although the figure was less than that in 2021, the trends in recent years had shown a steady increase in such damages, the company said.
"Climate change is taking an increasing toll," Thomas Blunck, member of the board of management of Munich Re, said in a statement. According to Blunck, the damages in 2022 were mainly caused by events that were more intense or were occurring more frequently than in earlier years.
On Monday, the German National Academy of Sciences Leopoldina called on the government to speed up the transformation of the country's energy system to help achieve the Paris climate targets both in Germany and Europe. "It is also important to come up with the technologies that make this possible worldwide," it said.
Germany aims to be climate neutral by 2045, partly by increasing the share of renewable energy sources in gross electricity consumption from around 44 percent in 2022 to at least 80 percent by 2030.
The energy transition in Europe's largest economy is "not progressing fast enough", a study published in February by the German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW) and the consulting firm Ernst and Young (EY) has found. In particular, the roll-out of renewable energy technologies was still proceeding "far too slowly". 
#213
Shanghai-based enterprise Shenergy Group Co Ltd recently unveiled the world's largest hydrogen-powered mining truck in terms of tonnage as part of its commitment to building a domestic hydrogen energy manufacturing value chain.
Jointly developed by Shenergy, Zoomlion Mining, Hongzhen Intelligence and Kunhua Technology, the massive mining truck adopts high-performance hydrogen fuel cell engine systems provided by Kunhua and can substantially reduce operating costs of such vehicles, it said. The company vowed to continuously create more hydrogen solutions as China sees increasing usage of renewable energy across the mining sector as part of efforts to achieve a carbon peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060.
An analyst said China's mining sector is taking active measures to pursue industry transition and achieve a low-carbon production plan.
While reducing the carbon footprint of the mining sector is a major task worldwide, the application of hydrogen in the mining sector might develop faster compared with that of private vehicles, as the routes of mining trucks are usually fixed, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
Hydrogen-powered trucks are a good start but need closer inspection, and it is also necessary to encourage more applications of green hydrogen, or hydrogen produced from clean energy including solar and wind power, rather than grey hydrogen, or hydrogen produced from fossil fuels, Lin said.
The company has set up a joint venture with France-based Plastic Omnium in Shanghai in January to manufacture and market type III and IV high-pressure hydrogen storage systems for the commercial vehicle market in China. The two parties also signed a memorandum of understanding to extend strategic cooperation around building hydrogen ecosystems and contributing to a road map for carbon neutrality in China. Shenergy also signed an agreement with Shell (China) Ltd last year to form a JV - Shanghai Shenergy and Shell New Energy Co Ltd - to invest in a network of hydrogen refueling stations in Shanghai, Shell's first hydrogen refueling network in Asia. The company vowed to build a full value chain that covers production, storage, transportation, refueling and utilization of hydrogen, through collaborations with more partners to support the development of hydrogen and contribute to the energy transition of Shanghai and China.
#214
China will further accelerate the construction of solar and wind power generation facilities in the Gobi Desert and other arid regions, as growth of renewable energies in the country has been gaining momentum in recent years, the National Energy Administration said.
Despite rapid expansion, the country's large-scale development of renewable energy still faces some challenges, including limited consumption capacity and the lack of a power transmission grid in some regions, the administration said during a national renewable energy development and construction situation analysis meeting held this month.
As the country is now in the new phase of rapid renewable energy development, it is necessary that the government create a good environment for the development of the industry, it said.
China's newly installed combined wind and solar power capacity reached a record 125 million kilowatts last year, taking total installed capacity to over 1.2 billion kW. Wind accounted for 37.63 million kW and solar took up 87.41 million kW.
According to the NEA, newly installed capacity of renewable energy, including solar and wind, reached 152 million kW last year, or 76.2 percent of the country's total newly added installed energy capacity.
The administration vowed to further step up monitoring work to expand its wind and solar power capacity and further facilitate the country's low-carbon energy transition and ensure domestic energy security.
An analyst said while renewable energy has been gaining momentum and ensuring domestic energy security in recent years, sources such as solar and wind have not yet fully taken off as a replacement for fossil fuels due to infrastructure and logistical challenges, among others.
Tasks like building new power transmission lines to connect remote renewable energy sources with population centers, and building energy storage facilities, take time. That in itself is a challenge, said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
However, China has been advancing construction of power grid and energy storage facilities in recent years, while the cost of renewable energies has also been declining thanks to technological advances, he said.
According to the NEA, renewable energy accounted for 47.3 percent of the country's total power generation capacity by the end of 2022, up 2.5 percentage points compared with a year prior.
Several landmark energy projects were completed last year, including the world's largest clean energy corridor, and the most efficient compressed air energy storage station, it said.
#215
Green demand, Europe's heightened buying due to energy crisis big factors
China's exports of solar modules are expected to gain further momentum this year, buoyed by increasing global demand amid green energy transition as well as Europe's plan to cut energy imports from Russia, said industry analysts.
The increasing demand for solar power worldwide will continuously provide opportunities for solar companies in China, leading to a robust rise in exports of Chinese solar components, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
Compared with China, the world's top solar manufacturer, Europe's manufacturing capacity is smaller, and that market needs to rely on China in the short to medium term, he said.
Exports of solar products, together with lithium batteries, lead China's list of high-tech and high-value exports, according to the Ministry of Commerce. China's exports of solar cells rose by nearly 68 percent in 2022, as the country is continuing its rapid expansion into new energy markets globally, it said.
Germany, for example, relies heavily on solar cells sourced from Chinese manufacturers. Deutsche Bank data showed that more than one-third of Germany's small and medium-sized enterprises in the solar industry rely heavily on Chinese supplies.
Peter Walch, purchasing manager of German solar company Belectric, was quoted by www.tagesschau.de as saying that the company might not be able to build and develop solar power plants without the core components provided by Chinese companies.
According to BloombergNEF, total exports of solar cells and modules from China rose sharply in 2022 to a record high of $46.3 billion. This is 63 percent higher than the dollar sum in the previous year. While solar modules represented a capacity of 157 gigawatts, cells added up to 24 GW.Together, the two solar products' capacity was 181 GW, it said.
"China dominates the global solar supply chain, with at least an 80 percent share of the total manufacturing capacity for photovoltaic module production," said Tan Youru, an analyst from BloombergNEF.
The EU was the biggest destination region for the Chinese mainland's PV exports in 2022, buying nearly $23 billion worth of products, up 113 percent year-on-year. This is equivalent to about 84 GW of modules, more than half of China's total module exports in 2022, he said.
BloombergNEF said it expects the market for newly built PV modules to grow by another 8 GW in 2023 in Europe to reach 49 GW. China will contribute significantly to it.
"The European Commission presented a Green Deal Industrial Plan to enhance the competitiveness of Europe's net-zero industry and support a rapid transition to climate neutrality in February 2023. While discussions on systematic incentive programs for solar manufacturing in competition with the US Inflation Reduction Act are heating up, Europe doesn't yet have a solid plan to support its solar manufacturing industry," he said.
"Although many countries are hoping to establish solar manufacturing capacity so that they can depend less on China, the capital expenditure required to do that is still significant, especially in the US and Europe, despite the decreasing costs due to efficiency improvements and cheaper equipment over the last decade."
The EU's heightened buying activity was spurred by energy security concerns and the acceleration of solar projects, although the market is limited by labor shortages for rooftop installations, which are permitted, and grid bottlenecks for large projects, he said.
Estimates by Pingan Securities show that China will account for a large proportion of solar product exports during the 2022-26 period. It is expected to account for less than half of the major markets worldwide with Europe and South America being the major growth markets.
Overseas revenue has become critical for China's top PV module manufacturers, which are also the world's top six, including Jinko Solar, LONGi Green Energy Technology and Trina Solar.
Jinko Solar, which is based in Shanghai, saw its shipments of PV modules rise to 44 GW last year, ranking second worldwide. With 14 production bases worldwide, it is optimistic about the prospects for solar module shipments this year.
Strong demand from Europe, Australia, Latin America and the Middle East substantially contributed to the company's better-than-expected performance last year. Overseas revenue of the company accounted for a major part of its total revenue last year, it said.
#216
Although US President Joe Biden tried to emphasize what his administration had done to tackle the climate change, millions of US people are displaced by natural disasters worsened by a changing climate.
A new Census Bureau report found that more than 3 million adults were forced to evacuate their homes in the past year because of hurricanes, floods and other events, said US news website Politico on Monday.
It said that Biden and Congress certainly need to do a lot more if the nation is to accomplish its climate goals. "For one, the country is not on a path to cut enough carbon to meet global reduction targets, and it remains unclear where the US will get the mass supply of critical minerals -- or the vast expansion of electrical transmission capacity -- it needs for the energy transition."
"Addressing these concerns ahead of the next presidential election could be an uphill battle for Biden. Opposition from the new GOP-controlled House means passing new climate laws is unlikely. And the conservative Supreme Court could further kneecap Biden's regulatory powers," said the report.
#217
Measures aim to ensure that the change to eco-friendly operations will be smooth and effective. Hou Liqiang reports.
By late 2017, all six districts of Beijing's downtown had transitioned to the use of natural gas as a heating source, instead of coal. In addition, almost all the coal-fired boilers in the city had been phased out.
All low-lying areas of the city were essentially coal-free by late 2018, while the Datai coal mine in Mentougou district was closed in September 2020, marking the end of coal mining in the capital.
Ongoing efforts to phase out coal have resulted in a substantial improvement in Beijing's air quality. In 2013, the first year PM2.5 particulate matter was monitored in the city, the annual average density of the air pollutant was 89.5 micrograms per cubic meter. By last year, the figure had fallen to 30 mcg per cu m.
The city, with a population of 22 million, is a pertinent example of the work being undertaken to synergize the reduction of pollution and carbon emissions as a viable path to achieving the country's climate targets and bringing the Beautiful China Initiative to reality.
Over the past 20 years, Beijing has demonstrated that a mega city with rapidly growing GDP, and fast rises in vehicle numbers, population and energy consumption can reduce air pollution effectively, said Yu Jianhua, deputy head of the Beijing Ecology and Environment Bureau, at a news conference earlier this year.
The capital's GDP shot up from 247.9 billion yuan in 2000 to more than 4 trillion yuan ($590 billion) in 2021, according to the city authorities.
During that time, the number of motor vehicles in the city climbed by more than 5.27 million.
International recognition
In the past 10 years, Beijing has seen its annual average concentration of PM2.5 fall by about 6 mcg per cu m per annum. The United Nations Environment Programme has dubbed that progress the "Beijing miracle", according to Li Xiang, director of the bureau's atmospheric environment department.
The capital's pollution and carbon emissions reduction endeavors have also won wider international recognition. For example, the "Phasing out Coal in Beijing's Heating System" project was recognized as one of the world's 10 best climate programs at the C40 World Mayors Summit in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in October.
"Beijing is the first city in northern China that has essentially addressed pollution from the angle of coal consumption," Li said, adding that consumption in the city fell to about 1.3 million metric tons in 2021, compared with 21.8 million tons in 2012. Moreover, compared with 2012, carbon dioxide emissions in the capital per unit of GDP fell by 48 percent.
Based on the air pollution control experiences of the past 10 years, the bureau will make the synergizing of the reduction of pollution and carbon emissions the main focus of its efforts to further improve the capital's air quality, Li said.
As China works toward peaking carbon dioxide emissions by the end of the decade and becoming carbon neutral by 2060, many more measures are being rolled out in Beijing for even greener development.
According to a 2021-25 energy development plan issued by the Beijing government, the capital's heating supply system is expected to be coal free before 2025, while the entire city will essentially halt the use of coal by 2035.
The document also includes plans to bolster the development of renewable energy and strengthen the transmission of green power, which will be brought into the capital from other regions.
It aims to raise the proportion of renewable energy in the capital's energy consumption mix from 10.4 percent in 2020 to more than 14.4 percent in 2025 by expanding the integration of photovoltaics in public buildings and promoting the development of wind and biomass power.
In fact, by 2025, the installed photovoltaic power capacity on the capital's rooftops will have been raised by 1.2 million kilowatts.
Meanwhile, in Tongzhou district, many projects in the ongoing construction of the Beijing Municipal Administrative Center are adhering to a green, low-carbon philosophy.
For example, the headquarters of Beijing Investment Group will be equipped with highly energy-efficient heating supply and air-conditioning facilities, and will also employ a photovoltaic power generation system.
In addition to being connected to the municipal heating supply system, the building, which is expected to be handed over in October, will simultaneously use terrestrial heat - naturally generated latent heat in the subsoil - for related purposes.
In Yizhuang, an economic and technological development area in Beijing's southern suburbs, an industrial park was certified as the country's first-ever carbon neutral smart industrial park in early 2021.
In 2020, half the electricity consumed in the park, which is run by Xinjiang Goldwind Science and Technology, was provided by clean energy sources, thanks to a smart microgrid supported by distributed wind and solar power generation facilities and an electricity storage system that uses a wide range of new technologies.
The company bought carbon credits equivalent to 11,937 tons of carbon dioxide from the China Certified Emission Reductions program to offset the park's emissions of greenhouse gases in the year. The move refers to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by companies on a voluntary basis that is certified by the government.
Olympic legacy
The legacy of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympic Games also means that energy consumption in the capital will be greener.
Thanks to a grid that transmits solar and wind power from Zhangbei, Hebei province, all the energy demands of the event's venues were supplied via renewable power. The grid, which has the capacity to supply about 10 percent of Beijing's electricity needs, will be used to help power the city.
Green electricity is also expected to be transmitted to Beijing from several nearby regions.
Mu Peng, head of the Beijing Commission of Development and Reform, said the capital established cooperation mechanisms for the development of green electricity with Shanxi province and the Inner Mongolia autonomous region last year.
Construction of a new energy development base that will serve Beijing has started in Hohhot, Inner Mongolia's capital, Mu said when he reported to the first session of the 16th Beijing People's Congress on Jan 15.
Meanwhile, when Yin Yong, Beijing's mayor, delivered the city's Government Work Report to the session, he stressed the authorities' determination to make the capital even greener.
"Firmly establishing and practicing the concept that 'lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets', Beijing will make concerted efforts to cut carbon dioxide emissions, reduce pollution, expand green development and pursue economic growth as it strives to make our skies bluer, mountains greener and water more lucid," he said.
As the authorities work to further raise the proportion of renewables in the city's energy consumption mix, they will also beef up efforts to promote a green, low-carbon transformation and upgrading in industrial parks and improve energy conservation in public buildings, he added.
Beijing will also establish an incentive mechanism to encourage voluntary contributions from medium, small and micro businesses and the public to reduce carbon emissions, as the authorities work to establish a favorable pattern for the reduction of carbon emissions that will involve people from all walks of life, he said.
#218
China plans to diversify the world's largest clean energy corridor with more solar and wind power projects based on existing hydropower stations, officials said.
The move is expected to further facilitate the country's carbon neutrality goals as it goes full throttle into its green energy transition.
The National Energy Administration plans to build the ability to produce more than 60 million kilowatts of wind power, photovoltaic power and other new energy sources along the Jinsha River, which is the name for the upper section of the Yangtze River.
This would achieve multi-energy complementarity, which is a mix of energy sources that complement each other with comprehensive and integrated development. It would also take advantage of the regulation capacity of the cascade hydropower plants, which can store water to help avoid floods, using the excess water to generate power. Such cascade plants are built one after another along a waterway, which entails additional requirements for optimum operation.
The NEA also vows to further ensure the steady operation of cascade hydropower plants along the Jinsha River to facilitate China's shift in energy structure and the coordinated development of the regional economy in the country.
The powerful, 16-gigawatt Baihetan hydropower plant, which was put into operation and started generating green electricity in December, will serve as a major power source for China's west-to-east power transmission.
Located downstream of the Jinsha River on the border of Yunnan and Sichuan provinces, it has the world's largest installed capacity for a single generating unit and the world's second-largest in terms of overall installed capacity, according to its operator, China Three Gorges Corp.
The Baihetan station also signifies a major breakthrough for China's high-end equipment manufacturing, given that it is equipped with 16 domestically developed hydro-generating units, each with a capacity of 1 million kW, said Lei Mingshan, chairman of the company.
"The full operation of Baihetan is of great significance to China's shift in energy structure, the construction of the Yangtze River Economic Belt and the coordinated development of the regional economy in the country," he said.
The completion of the Baihetan hydropower station marks the completion of the world's largest clean energy corridor, including the Baihetan station and the Wudongde, Xiluodu, Xiangjiaba, Three Gorges, and Gezhouba cascade hydropower stations over trunk streams of the Yangtze River. The six hydropower stations are now equipped with 110 generating units and have a total installed capacity of nearly 71.70 million kW, according to the China Three Gorges Corp.
The six cascade hydropower stations are expected to generate 300 billion kWh annually, which will relieve power shortages in Central and East China, and in Sichuan, Yunnan and Guangdong provinces. It will also support safe and stable operation of the west-to-east power transmission project and power grid.
The construction of the Baihetan-Zhejiang 800-kilovolt ultra-high-voltage direct current power transmission project was also completed in December, which will help send the clean electricity generated in the southwestern province of Sichuan to eastern Zhejiang province through a transmission line stretching 2,121 kilometers, according to the State Grid Corp of China.
China has been working on the construction of large hydroelectric dams, especially in the south-western region, due to its abundant hydropower resources.
Michael F. Rogers, president of the International Commission on Large Dams, said China is expected to lead the world in hydropower innovation in the future as the country's hydropower projects have helped improve people's livelihoods and environmental protection.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said the cascade hydropower stations, together with the power transmission project that sends electricity from the resource-rich west to energy-consuming regions in the east, will further help southwestern areas to become a key renewable energy center with hydropower as a key player.
Compared with other renewable energy, hydropower is more stable and will play a key role in the new power system in the future, he said.
The China Three Gorges Corp said the clean power generated by the 1,800-km energy corridor could help replace about 90.45 million metric tons of coal or avoid about 248.4 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions annually.
#219
Saudi Arabia eyes clean and sustainable energy, and an international energy conference in its capital warns that the "net-zero ambitions" of countries should not come at the expense of economic development and improving the livelihoods of people in the least developing and less developed economies.
This key message was emphasized by Fahad Alajlan, president of the King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center, or KAPSARC, during the opening plenary session of the 44th International Conference of the International Association for Energy Economics in Riyadh on Feb 5 - the first time such conference is being held in the Middle East and North Africa region.
"With 97 percent of the people without electricity concentrated in the least developing economies, we have an uneven energy access," said Alajlan, adding that the MENA region especially faces additional challenges of market volatility, geopolitical uncertainties, and economic diversification.
Such economies have challenges of meeting ambitious climate goals, including net-zero target, as well as lack of access to modern electricity and clean cooking to a significant portion of the global populations, and "supplying all the energy needs for all our economic activity".
"We're all looking toward the future of prosperity, which is not achieved at the cost of the planet. Will the future be the same future for all of us and more importantly, is the starting point all the same?"
Alajlan cited transportation as one of the major pillars for achieving sustainability, yet there are major challenges and hurdles that need to be overcome.
And while technological developments are the answer in some, changes "in the way we plan, the way we act and the way we interact are essential". He said electrification is a major target yet electrification "cannot be the only silver bullet in our arsenal".
"When we're looking at energy quality, the disparity in electrification is much more pronounced than overall energy of poverty," Alajlan said.
So while the power sector is crucial in achieving the energy transition goals, people should understand that electrification might work in major and developed economies, but can be more challenging in new economies and developing markets, he added.
Alajlan also brought up the range of technological, economic regulatory and policy challenges, such as integrating renewable energy and energy storage and introducing new focus on emphasis on nuclear technology, digitalization and decarbonization.
"We need to diversify the economy, diversify our energy sources and diversify the system and technologies that give space for innovation and create resilience. However, one issue stands above all: financing. The investment that we need," said the KAPSARC president.
Alajlan said financing the energy transition toward carbon neutrality is crucial. "When we're looking at inclusivity and the dispersion of funds to emerging economies and countries that suffer from energy poverty, that equation is even worse, so we need to focus on that as well," he said.
ajid Al-Moneef, chairman of the Board for the Saudi Association for Energy Economics, or SAEE, announced that they were in the process of instituting a MENA energy economics conference annually in the region.
"We had one exploratory meeting in Abu Dhabi and Bahrain, but this will be hopefully institutionalized in the region so the MENA energy economics conference will join the North American conference, the European economics conference and the Asian conference," Al-Moneef said.
Jean-Michel Glachant, president of the IAEE, said he was glad to be meeting face-to-face for the event and welcomed the attendees to Saudi Arabia.
"On a more personal touch, I'm also very happy to welcome being back (attending) face-to-face events and you will find this strange, to welcome you to Saudi Arabia. I know it's not my country, but you have all seen now how easy (it is now) to get a visa and to go through airport practicality," he noted.
"At IAEE, we encourage you to network, to meet fellow researchers, to share your knowledge, to gain from conference experience and please you will have to tell us what you have learned," Glachant said.
Late on Feb 4, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud, Saudi Arabia's minister of energy, said Saudi Arabia is moving to become a major exporter of green electricity to the world amid global risks to energy security and access.
The minister also warned that sanctions against Russia could result in a "lack of energy supplies when needed".
"Be it as it may, in all what goes on and had gone in the past...all of these so-called sanctions, embargoes, self-lack of investments, they all will convolute into one thing and to one thing only - lack of energy supplies of all kind when they are most needed," said the prince, adding that the "whole trajectory of the future might be lost by virtue of ignorance", he told the conference on Feb 4.
Speaking at the inauguration of the 44th IAEE event in his fireside chat with Daniel Yergin, vice-chairman at S&P Global, the minister also warned that sanctions against Russia could result in a "lack of energy supplies when needed".
For Saudi Arabia, the prince said they are gearing up to be "not an oil country, but (an) energy producing country".
"We believe that in scoring or comparing our ability, we can become the exporter of green electricity to the world. We can become all of the above: Green hydrogen, blue, purple whatever, but we're working hard to make it clean hydrogen," the prince said.
The Saudi energy minister said some countries are "to create a bit of protectionism", subsidy and public policy, adding that "gone are the days of free markets and globalization" and lamented the "cocoon approach".
In his remarks at the inauguration, Alajlan said the emphasis of the conference is on "pathways" to a clean, stable and sustainable energy future.
"Instead, there are many pathways that get us there. Pathways that take into account national circumstances, economic development and solutions that are local, national, regional and global, not the other way round. And here in Saudi Arabia, we aim to lead by example," he added.
#220
China will continue increasing the deployment of renewable power in 2023 on strong demand, lower raw-material costs and a low-base effect for wind power, according to Fitch Ratings.
China's large State-owned power generation companies remain committed to the country's energy transition strategy and are the largest investors in renewable power, said Fitch Ratings, adding that the companies' active bidding bodes well for new installations in 2023.
In 2022, a total of 446 wind power projects with a capacity of 87 GW completed equipment bidding in 2022, compared with around 60 GW in 2021, Fitch Ratings cited data from wind power information provider Windmango.
The installed capacity of wind and solar power in China rose 22 percent year-on-year last year, according to Fitch Ratings.
#221
Transition: Country invests more than others in building its clean energy supply chain
China led the world in energy transition investment with $546 billion, nearly half of the global total, as the world saw such investment reach a new record in 2022, according to a report published by research and analysis firm BloombergNEF.
The United States was a distant second with $141 billion, the report said, adding that the European Union would have been second, with $180 billion, if treated as a single bloc.
According to the report, the global investment in low-carbon energy transition totaled $1.1 trillion last year - a new record and a huge acceleration from the year before - as the energy crisis and policy action drove faster deployment of clean energy technologies.
BloombergNEF also noted that China contributed to a significant increase in clean energy factory investment, which the report refers to as investment in manufacturing facilities for clean energy technologies.
Such investment grew to $78.7 billion in 2022, up from $52.6 billion in 2021, BloombergNEF said. Manufacturing facilities for batteries and related components formed the largest share of this investment at $45.4 billion, while solar factories attracted $23.9 billion.
Last year, China accounted for 91 percent of such manufacturing investment despite efforts of other countries to capture more of the global clean energy opportunity, the report said.
Manufacturing capacity for clean energy technologies is unlikely to be a major bottleneck in achieving net-zero carbon emissions, Antoine Vagneur-Jones, BloombergNEF's head of trade and supply chains research, was quoted as saying in a news release from the research firm on Jan 26.
"However, from a supply chain diversification point of view, the picture has not changed much. China is investing by far the most in building its clean energy supply chain, and it remains to be seen if other regions can capture a significant market share," he said.
BloombergNEF estimated that global fossil fuel investments stood at $1.1 trillion in 2022.
This is the first time that global investment in energy transition has matched that in fossil fuel despite the growth in fossil fuel investments triggered by last year's energy crisis, the report said.
"Our findings put to bed any debate about how the energy crisis will impact clean energy deployment," said Albert Cheung, head of the research firm's global analysis wing.
Rather than slowing down, energy transition investment has surged to a new record as countries and businesses continue to execute their transition plans. Investment in clean energy technologies is on the brink of overtaking fossil fuel investments, he emphasized.
"These investments will drive short-term job creation and help address medium-term energy security objectives," Cheung said. "But more investment is needed to get on track for net zero in the long term."
#222
China outperformed all nations in terms of clean energy investment in 2022, spending $546 billion - nearly half the global total, according to a recent report.
The United States was a distant second with $141 billion, while the European Union would have been second if treated as a single bloc, with $180 billion, the report from research firm BloombergNEF said.
It said global investment in low-carbon energy transition totaled $1.1 trillion last year - a record and a huge increase from 2021 - as the energy crisis and policy action drove faster deployment of clean energy technologies.
The report also noted that China strongly contributed to the significant increase in clean energy factory investment, which the report refers to as investments in manufacturing facilities for clean energy technologies.
Such investment grew to $78.7 billion in 2022, up from $52.6 billion in 2021, it said. Manufacturing facilities for batteries and related components made up the largest share of this investment with $45.4 billion, while solar factories attracted $23.9 billion.
China accounted for 91 percent of manufacturing investments last year despite efforts from other countries to capture more of the global clean energy market, it said.
The manufacturing capacity for clean energy technologies is unlikely to be the major bottleneck to achieving net zero carbon emissions, Antoine Vagneur-Jones, BNEF's head of trade and supply chains research, was quoted as saying in a news release from the research firm on Jan 26.
"However, from a supply chain diversification point of view, the picture has not changed much. China is by far investing the most in building out its clean energy supply chain, and it remains to be seen if other regions can capture significant market share," he said.
#223
With increased investment in the green energy sectors, China will contribute very positively to global growth, said participants at the Davos meeting.
During this year's World Economic Forum Annual Meeting, which opened on Monday, climate change was among the top concerns for participants, with China's role in the world's transition to green energy entering the spotlight.
China is one of the largest investors in solar energy, wind energy and battery storage, which are all high-growth sectors, Leslie Maasdorp, vice-president and chief financial officer of the New Development Bank, told Xinhua during an interview at the WEF.
Noting that one in two electric vehicles sold worldwide is in China, Maasdorp said China can play a crucial role in stimulating the low carbon growth strategy of the world economy.
"What impressed me the most is that almost everyone here is talking about transformation towards new energy," said Forest Tu, president for sales and marketing with China's battery producer Contemporary Amperex Technology Co Limited.
The Chinese battery maker has been providing batteries for major car manufacturers worldwide and aims to become a pivotal player in the transition to clean energy.
With well-developed energy-transition solutions, CATL is looking forward to establishing cooperation with governments to help promote electrification, Tu told Xinhua.
In addition to the electric vehicle industry, China's renewable energy development was also highlighted at the WEF.
China is a major producer of renewable energy, WEF President Borge Brende told Xinhua before the annual meeting's opening.
Renewables are not only good for the environment and climate but also create much more jobs than traditional fossil fuel industries, Brende noted.
"We are extremely proud of the steps taken by the Chinese government to promote renewable energy as a part of the energy mix as required for China to fuel its continuous development and economic growth," Haitham Al Ghais, secretary general of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, told Xinhua.
He hailed China's "ambitious targets" that have been laid out by the leadership to be carbon neutral, saying that China is taking a leading role, and "we really commend China for that direction."
#224
China is expanding rapidly in the global new energy market with a ramp-up of product exports including solar modules and lithium batteries, buoyed by increasing global demand amid green energy transition, experts said.
The country will keep up with the trend as its manufacturers are renovating technologies for lower cost production and use and enhanced performance to raise competitiveness, and they are able to respond quickly to the need for customized products from overseas, they said.
The remarks came after the General Administration of Customs released trade data, which stated that exports of solar cells and lithium batteries in 2022 increased 67.8 percent and 86.7 percent year-on-year, respectively.
Zhou Mi, a senior researcher at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation, said that the growth of China's exports of new energy products was the result of rising worldwide demand for such goods, and the trend is likely to continue, buoyed by the transitioning of global energy structures and recovering economies.
"China's new energy industry is developing rapidly. Its products, especially solar panels and lithium batteries, are competitive in the global market with low prices and high quality, and relevant companies have gained increasing recognition and relatively high reputation in the international market, which is also an important driver of the export growth," Zhou said.
"Going forward, global demand for low-carbon energy, especially in energy-intensive areas like construction, will continue to boost China's exports of new energy facilities, which is an opportunity for Chinese companies provided they can ensure supply capacity and advancement of technologies.Meanwhile, further efforts are also needed to reduce costs and increase production efficiency," Zhou said.
The National Energy Administration said China will work to promote international cooperation in the area of clean energy this year by establishing the China-ASEAN and China-Arab clean energy cooperation centers, and by facilitating cooperation with European countries in areas like hydrogen energy, energy storage, wind power and smart energy.
"China's promotion of clean energy cooperation in these regions, which has huge demand for new energies, will offer great business opportunities for companies. Chinese new energy products' foray into such markets will also promote local firms' green transition," Zhou added.
Jiang Yali, a solar analyst at energy research provider BloombergNEF, said that as a major photovoltaic product manufacturing country, China is responsible for more than 75 percent of the global PV supply chain, and its export volume of such products has increased significantly in accordance with global growth of around 47 percent or about 268 gigawatts.
Jiang said that China has a complete life cycle supply chain in PV facility manufacturing with an obvious scale effect. Meanwhile, the technology of PV power generation is developing rapidly, which greatly promotes cost reductions, giving the country a leading role in the global PV supply chain.
"In the process of achieving carbon neutrality, solar power - as a clean energy source that can be adapted to a wide range of scenarios at relatively low cost - will continue to exhibit robust demand, and global new installed capacity is expected to maintain rapid growth, which is the continuous driving force for China's export of PV facilities," Jiang said.
"However, with ongoing geopolitical conflicts and trade uncertainties, Chinese exports of PV products have been challenged by trade protectionism such as tariffs, and measures to protect local PV facility manufacturers," she said.
In 2023, there may be more newly increased production capacity in India, the United States, Southeast Asia, Turkiye and other markets.However, over the short term, they still cannot replace China's leading position in global PV facility manufacturing, Jiang added.
The international market may formulate more standards such as carbon emissions requirements, which will also be a challenge for relevant companies, she said.
#225
The secretary general of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is "very confident about China's economy," he told Xinhua in an exclusive interview on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum here on Wednesday.
Chinese economy
Asked about China's COVID-19 reopening, Haitham Al Ghais said: "This means a lot to the global economy, to energy. And, of course, to trade between China and the rest of the world. This has a significant impact."
"Having lived in China for almost four years ... I have faith in China. I've always said that when people have doubted the Chinese economy, do not discount China, China will come back," he said.
Al Ghais of Kuwait assumed the post of secretary general in August, succeeding the late OPEC chief Mohammad Barkindo, who died in July last year.
China reported steady economic growth in 2022 despite pressures, including the resurgence of COVID-19 and a complicated external environment, with its gross domestic product reaching new highs.
The economy grew 3 percent year-on-year to a record high of 121 trillion yuan ($18 trillion) in 2022, China's National Bureau of Statistics said on Tuesday.
"We are very confident in the Chinese economy and the strength of the leadership and the government and the people of China," said the OPEC chief.
"OPEC and China have had a long-standing relationship and great dialogue, which we as well as our member countries have enjoyed over so many years," he noted.
Global economic outlook
Oil prices, which came close to the all-time high of $147 a barrel in March last year due to the conflict in Ukraine, have since unwound most of their 2022 gains.
In its monthly oil market report released on Tuesday, OPEC stuck to its global oil demand forecast for this year despite an improving economic outlook in top crude importer China.
The group said it still expects oil demand to grow by 2.2 million barrels per day (bpd) this year, which is lower than its previous estimate of 2.5 million bpd growth for 2022.
The 2023 global economic growth forecast remained unchanged at 2.5 percent, it also said in the report. For China, the OPEC kept its economic growth forecast unchanged at 4.8 percent for 2023.
"We see the global economy still growing at a relatively good pace in view of the circumstances. Last year, the world was witnessing signs, especially in the second half, of an economic slowdown, especially in the OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) developing countries," Al Ghais said.
"We also had issues related to Chinese oil demand because of the extensive lockdowns after the COVID cases were spiking in China and the measures that were implemented there," he said.
Oil demand
For 2023, OPEC kept its world oil demand growth projection unchanged at 2.2 million bpd, with the OECD members growing by 0.3 million bpd and non-OECD members by 1.9 million bpd.
As a policy, OPEC does not forecast or comment on oil prices but only on supply and demand, Al Ghais explained.
"Our initial projections for this year show that there is optimism, especially since China has opened up. China is a major global economic powerhouse."
He emphasized that more investments were needed to transform the industry.
"OPEC's forecast from today until 2045 is that we see a requirement of $12.1 trillion to be invested in the oil industry. This is a holistic view, investments not just in production and exploration but also in logistics, shipping, downstream refining, petrochemicals, the whole value chain," he said.
China's green transition
The secretary general also highlighted the importance of China's green energy transition.
"We are extremely proud of the steps taken by the Chinese government to promote renewable energy as a part of the energy mix that's required for China to fuel its continuous development and economic growth," he said.
The OPEC chief said that the world "will require all sources of energy," which fits in line with the Chinese green energy transition, where all sources of energy will be required.
He hailed China's "ambitious targets" that have been laid out by the leadership to be carbon neutral.
On Sept 21, 2020, China announced at the 75th session of the United Nations General Assembly that it aims to have CO2 emissions peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. 
#226
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Wednesday called on business leaders gathered at the World Economic Forum in Davos to follow the principles outlined by an expert group to make "credible", accountable net-zero pledges.
The United Nations and standard setter the International Organization for Standardization launched the guidelines in November to become a reference text and help organisations come up with solid plans, avoiding slogans, hype and obfuscation.
While companies are increasingly pledging to cut greenhouse gas emissions to as close as possible to zero, the benchmarks and criteria they use "are often dubious or murky", the UN chief told the Davos delegates.
"It leaves the door wide open to greenwashing," he said, referring to unsubstantiated claims by some firms that their products are ecologically friendly.
He urged the participants: "Put forward credible and transparent transition plans on how to achieve net-zero - and submit those plans before the end of this year."
"The transition to net-zero must be grounded in real emissions cuts - and not rely on carbon credits and shadow markets," he said.
The green energy transition of world powers has been one of the central themes at the forum in Davos, where the European Union said it would mobilise state aid to keep firms from relocating to the United States as part of its Green Deal industrial plan.
Guterres said meaningful engagement on climate, trade and technology between the United States and China - at loggerheads over issues ranging from trade to human rights - was essential to prevent confrontation.
"We risk what I have called a Great Fracture - the decoupling of the world's two largest economies," he said.
"This is the last thing we need."
In comments about global preparedness for another pandemic, Guterres said the world had failed to learn the lessons from COVID-19.
"We are nowhere near ready for pandemics to come," he said.

#227
Rising fuel prices in Kenya give Francis Karanja, a Nairobi taxi driver, plenty to worry about as he has watched his already meager income take a hit over the past year.
During the Christmas holiday period, he was spending about $1.70 for a liter of diesel to keep his cab on the road; in the prior year, he was paying just a dollar. But Karanja is reluctant to ask for higher fares from his passengers.
"The customers themselves complain that their salaries have not increased, and I will lose customers if I increase the fare," said the 35-year-old, who works on commission. "It is like I am doing nothing since the profit I used to make will now have to go on fuel."
Driven by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, prices of fuel and other basic commodities in Kenya and other African countries have kept on the rise, bringing economic hardships to hundreds of millions of people across the continent.
According to Kenya's National Bureau of Statistics, prices of diesel and petrol climbed by around 18 percent and 13 percent, respectively, from August to September last year. The cost of gas and electricity, along with those related to housing and water, rose by nearly 3 percent over the month, with the rising fuel costs to blame, it said.
A recent United Nations Development Programme study found that the most visible impacts of the military operation in Ukraine on Africa are the rising prices for fuel and food, and the financial instability associated with inflation.
The study suggests that the poorest countries in Africa have been hit the hardest, as a larger proportion of cash-strapped consumers' expenditure goes on food and transport.
In Kenya, purchases of cooking gas in the first half of the year dropped to a four-year low, highlighting the impact of the high prices of fuel due to the reintroduction of a value-added tax after the start of the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
According to data from Kenya's National Bureau of Statistics, homes and businesses used 123,150 metric tons of cooking gas in the six months to June last year, a drop of 35 percent from the same period in the prior year.
The UNDP study says that the conflict is threatening to derail development progress in African countries, pushing the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals and the aspirations of the African Union's Agenda 2063 further out of reach.
According to Macharia Munene, a lecturer of history and international relations at the United States International University in Kenya, the conflict in Europe is bound to affect the prices of key commodities like oil and grains.
Negative effect
"While Ukraine is far from Africa, the fact that the global price of oil is going up has a negative effect and direct impact on the African economy. For anything we import, the price will likely go up because of the problem in Eastern Europe," Munene said.
According to the UNDP study, there are also indirect impacts of the crisis in Ukraine, including imported inflation, difficult energy transitions and a potential geopolitical realignment.
The impact of the conflict "could push Africa into serious debt distress", making countries less likely to meet their debt obligations, the study said. "It could also increase inequality because high food and fuel prices typically hit the most vulnerable households hardest," it said.
Munene believes that increased oil and food prices will exacerbate inflationary pressures that have been building up in the wake of the pandemic and contribute to further monetary tightening and higher interest rates that will dampen global economic growth.
"The hike in fuel and food prices also comes at a time when African countries are faced with the negative impacts of changes in seasonal climate patterns on agricultural production, causing droughts in some areas and floods in others," Munene said.
Research from Statista, an online platform providing market and consumer data, indicates that sub-Saharan African countries have found themselves facing another severe shock because the conflict in Europe has prompted the surge in food and fuel prices that threatens the region's economic outlook.
When it comes to energy, consumers in the Central African Republic pay the highest price - one liter of gasoline cost an average of $2.40 in July, while in Zimbabwe, the retail price for the fuel was nearly $2, according to the research.
Details from an International Monetary Fund study on the impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on Africa indicate that growth in Africa was expected to slow to 3.8 percent in 2022 from the previous year's rate of 4.5 percent.
In addition, inflation in the region is expected to remain elevated in 2023 at nearly 10 percent. This will be the first time since 2008 that average inflation in Africa reaches that level.
Trade strains
"Higher oil prices will increase the import bill for Africa's oil importers by about $19 billion, worsening trade imbalances and raising transport and other consumer costs. Oil-importing fragile states will be hit hardest, with fiscal balances expected to deteriorate by around 0.8 percent of gross domestic product compared to the October 2021 forecast," the IMF report said.
"Half of Africa's low-income countries are already in or at high risk of distress. Rising oil prices also represent a direct fiscal cost for countries through fuel subsidies, while inflation will make reducing these subsidies unpopular," it added.
The IMF also pointed out that spending pressures on governments in Africa will only increase as growth slows, and rising interest rates in advanced economies may make financing more costly and harder to obtain for some governments.
According to Karanja, the passengers he transports in the Kenyan capital should get ready for at least a 20 percent increase in fares if fuel prices remain high.
"Fuel is everything and it is not our wish to hike the fare," Karanja said.
#228
The construction of a mega solar and wind power base in North China's Inner Mongolia autonomous region will further facilitate the country's low-carbon energy transition and ensure domestic energy security, industry experts said.
With an overall installed capacity of 16 million kilowatts and an investment of 80 billion yuan ($11.47 billion), the project, located in the Kubuqi Desert in Inner Mongolia, China's seventh-largest desert, will cover 8 million kW of solar power and 4 million kW of wind power, said its operator China Three Gorges Corp.
As the world's largest power generation base of its kind in desert areas, the project also includes supporting advanced and efficient coal power installation up to 4 million kW, as well as 4-6 million kW of energy storage, it said.
Once completed, the base will be able to transfer about 40 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity to the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region every year and over half of it will be clean energy, equivalent to saving about 6 million metric tons of standard coal and reducing carbon dioxide by about 16 million tons, it said.
An analyst said the project will further optimize China's energy mix and facilitate the country's ambition of non-fossil fuels accounting for 20 percent of total energy consumption by 2025 and 25 percent by 2030.
The project will boost the proportion of clean power in the country's energy mix while helping the country to achieve its sustainable energy ambitions, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
China vows to speed up the construction of solar and wind power generation facilities in the Gobi Desert and other arid regions amid efforts to boost renewable power consumption, taking advantage of plentiful solar and wind resources there, according to a statement jointly released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration.
The government will increase the total installed capacity of wind and solar power to 1.2 billion kW by 2030. China added a record 54.9 gigawatts of solar farms last year, 14 percent more than in 2020.
Lei Mingshan, chairman of China Three Gorges Corp, said the project will not only facilitate the government's ambitions to peak carbon by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, but also expand domestic demand and promote investment.
Together with the Kubuqi Desert project, the corporation also announced another 26 projects related to new energy and environmental protection on Wednesday with a total investment of more than 109.05 billion yuan and a total installed capacity of 19.64 million kW.
#229
Europe has become the largest buyer of Chinese photovoltaic products in the world. Despite the rising prices in the solar supply chain, the number of PV modules exported by China to Europe has been growing every month.
The reason behind it is that China, which boasts the world's biggest production capacity in solar energy equipment and related goods, has found a matching buyer in Europe, a continent where advanced markets have accelerated ambitious energy transition goals after Russia-Ukraine tensions created energy inflation and energy insecurity, which in turn increased the demand for PV energy.
The European Commission introduced the REPowerEU Plan in May, pledging to accumulate 320 GW of installed PV capacity by 2025, and 600 GW by 2030. The plan also states scrutiny will be stepped up gradually, mandating all public and regular buildings to install rooftop PV systems.
Germany has also ramped up renewable energy development amid the Russia-Ukraine conflict, aiming to fulfill 100 percent of its electricity need with renewables by 2035 and to add 20 GW of installed PV capacity every year from 2028 onward.
Small wonder then that Europe places increasing orders for Chinese energy goods despite the ever rising supply chain prices. PV InfoLink, a market research company, forecasts that Europe's module demand this year will reach 49 GW. The figure will likely be even higher at 55 GW in an optimistic scenario.
There is no country that can serve Europe's needs better than China, which is currently the most cost-competitive location to manufacture all components of the solar PV supply chain. Costs in China tend to be 10 percent lower than in India, 20 percent lower than in the US and 35 percent lower than in parts of Europe, according to the International Energy Agency.
Solar investment in China during the first four months of 2022 had also increased more than 200 percent year-on-year to $4.4 billion, while the country is expected to install up to 108 GW of solar power this year, nearly double the 54.88 GW deployed last year, according to the country's National Energy Administration.
It's hard to imagine that decades ago, solar energy in China was only a source of power to help remote rural areas that were off the main power grid. The clean energy has fundamentally changed the economics of solar power all over the world and China today dominates nearly all aspects of solar use and manufacturing markets.
This achievement is a kind of marvel made possible by the combination of a highly efficient government, which has built up the world's largest solar manufacturing industry to make it the price leader in most aspects of the global market, and the firm determination to tackle the then pollution problems in the country. That combination has added momentum to efforts to invest in clean energy and wean the country's and the world's electricity markets off coal.
After years of development, China's PV industry has gained a historic foothold in Europe for being the most reliable and resilient supplier of solar panels.
While demand for PV products has reached a new high, driven by surging natural gas prices amid the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the damaged Nord Stream pipelines, Chinese solar panels will only be gaining more popularity among European consumers in the years to come.
#230
China's new photovoltaic installations grew 98.7 percent year-on-year to 58.24 gigawatts during the first 10 months this year as the country has actively promoted solar power development in recent years.
Exports also hit a record high amid surging demand overseas, hitting $44.03 billion, up 90.3 percent year-on-year, contributing to the global low-carbon energy transition and energy security, according to figures released by the China Photovoltaic Industry Association.
The share of modules exported to European markets now accounts for more than half of the total as demand for PV products in Europe climbs. Demand from Spain, Germany and Poland is growing significantly, according to Wang Bohua, chairman of the association.
The South American market, especially Brazil, also showed strong growth, he said.
The association expects new solar capacity in 2022 will be on course to hit a record as the country goes full throttle on its green energy transition.
Total installations are expected to further gain momentum to stand between 80 GW and 100 GW this year, breaking last year's record of some 55 GW, said Wang.
Robust market demand has driven strong growth in solar panel manufacturing. In the first three quarters, the output of four major products - polysilicon, silicon wafers, cells and modules - exceeded last year's total, with year-on-year growth of more than 40 percent, said the association.
"The rocketing exports and newly added installed capacity, as well as investment, are a result of supportive domestic policies for new energy development in the country as it's in full swing to transition to a low-carbon society," said Jiang Yali, a solar analyst at BloombergNEF.
China, the world's largest producer of wind and solar energy as well as the largest domestic and outbound investor in renewable energy, is already leading in renewable energy production figures, according to the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
In recent years, China has been stepping up the development of renewable energy, including solar and wind power, with massive achievements in the sector as the country aims to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.
The country will see its installed capacity of renewable energy account for more than half of the country's total by 2025, from 42.4 percent - 930 million kilowatts - by the end of 2020, said the National Development and Reform Commission, the country's top economic regulator.
#231
Oil and gas exploration to rise; sector's 2022 crude output up 7% to 58.6m tons
China's investment in offshore oil and gas exploration is expected to continue rising, with more than half of this year's domestic oil increment likely to have come from offshore, according to a recent report released by China National Offshore Oil Corp.
This year's data are expected to show that China has harnessed more domestic energy from offshore resources, hitting a record high. The country's offshore crude production will also show a nearly 7 percent year-on-year rise this year to an estimated 58.6 million metric tons, accounting for more than 50 percent of the county's total crude increment, according to the China Offshore Energy Report drafted by the CNOOC Energy Economics Institute.
Offshore natural gas production this year will exceed 21.6 billion cubic meters, up 8.6 percent year-on-year, making up around 13 percent of the country's gas increment, it said.
The institute estimates China's offshore oil production will exceed 60 million tons in 2023, and lead domestic oil production increment, while offshore natural gas production is also expected to exceed 23 billion cubic meters next year.
According to Wang Zhen, head of the institute, this year is set to prove a major breakthrough in China's oil and gas exploration and exploitation, with seven new offshore oil and gas discoveries made in China.
"Growth in the oil and gas sector will come mostly from offshore resources in China, which is expected to become an important energy growth driver in the years to come," he said.
The company said China's offshore crude increment last year accounted for more than 80 percent of the country's total growth volume, a record high, while the exploitation of offshore natural gas resources is steadily advancing toward even deeper waters.
Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF, said he believes China's offshore oil and gas production is expected to continue rising during the 2022-24 period, while its continuous upstream investment and production commitment will also play a critical role in China's energy supply security.
The institute said that renewable energies are also seeing more opportunities in the offshore sector, as offshore wind has been developing on a large scale in the country.
It estimates that China's offshore wind power installed capacity will reach 32.5 million kilowatts by the end of this year, accounting for almost half of the globe's total of 68.5 million kilowatts.
The country has come up with several industrial clusters so far in the Pearl River Delta region and Yangtze River Delta region, it said.
As China has been developing a green and low-carbon energy transition on a large scale, the offshore wind power will account for almost 20 percent of China's coastal regions' power consumption in 2050, up from the current 2 percent, it said.
According to the institute, China's dependence on crude oil and natural gas imports will further drop this year. It estimates that domestic crude production will reach 205 million tons this year, exceeding 200 million tons for the first time since 2016. Natural gas production in the country is expected to rise to 221.1 billion cubic meters, up 6.5 percent over 2021, it said.
The country's reliance on crude oil imports has dropped for the first time in the past two decades in 2021, from 73.6 percent in 2020 to 72 percent in 2021, official data showed.
According to Wang Dongjin, chairman of CNOOC, the company's oil and gas production is expected to rise more than 6 percent each year during the 2022-24 period, while the company will also roll out a new energy industry strategy to enhance its position as the country's top offshore oil and gas driller.
The company will conduct oil exploration, focusing on increasing capacity and storage of oil and gas, and adopting advanced technologies to bolster China's energy security and reduce its reliance on foreign energy resources, Wang said.
#232
Given its important role in the energy transition, experts believed the global demand for copper will grow in the long term.
The consensus forecast of the economists and banking analysts surveyed by FocusEconomics indicated the average price of the red metal, a base metal used in the electric power industry, construction and machine-building, will be $7,660 per tonne in 2023 and rise to around $8,000 in 2024.
The price now is around $8,300 a tonne.
The UN has agreed on the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to prevent global temperatures from rising by more than 1.5 degrees by 2050. To reach the target, the world's major economies are driving the shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy and vehicle electrification. Electric vehicles, solar panels and wind turbines all require more copper.
Wood Mackenzie, a consulting company, estimated that the world will need an additional 9.7 million tonnes of copper in the coming decade in order to gradually move towards net zero (a net-zero balance in terms of greenhouse gas emissions).
"To date, a shortfall of this magnitude has never been overcome within a decade", Wood Mackenzie analysts wrote in their October report.
Udokan Copper, which is developing the largest copper deposit in Russia, will begin production in 2023. Udokan is located in Russia's Far East and near the Chinese border, making it easier for transportation. Udokan is one of the greenfield projects launched in the last decade that will increase the supply of copper.
Currently, the supply-and-demand balance remains rather fraught. First, commercial copper inventories in storage facilities approved by the Shanghai and London metal exchanges are now close to records lows; there is enough for only a few days of global copper consumption. Second, there is a shortage of copper scrap in the market that could be used for smelting copper as an alternative to raw materials extracted from mines.
Third, the largest copper-producing countries continue to face challenges affecting the regular supply of copper. In Chile, this is due to a decrease in copper content in the ore in existing deposits, as well as periodic droughts that are forcing mines to make additional investments in seawater desalination to support their operations.
China continues its intense development of industries related to the energy transition. The country plans to build at least 1,200 gigawatts of renewable - solar and wind - power generation capacity by 2030. China is one of the world's largest manufacturer of electric vehicles and expects that by 2030 40% of the cars sold in the country will be electric.
Moreover, Udokan is in an optimal geographic location for shipping copper to China. In addition, the company is focused on environmental protection and plans to reduce its carbon footprint considerably by 2035.
#233
Chinese clean energy expertise seen as helping mitigate damage
Seraphine Mutindi, a villager in Makueni county, southern Kenya, used to rely on farming to support her family of six. However, things began to change three years ago.
"There has been little rain due to changing weather patterns, and the land is so dry that I cannot even grow maize," Mutindi, 35, a mother of four, from the Kithina village, said.
Having to abandon her farmland, which is less than half a hectare, she has to do manual jobs such as cleaning the house, gathering firewood and washing clothes to earn about $2 a day to buy food to support her family.
To make ends meet, they only have one meal, primarily ugali, a locally popular staple made of corn flour, at noon every day.
Mutindi's situation is not the worst in the village of 35,000 people. About 200 people in the village, mostly elderly who have lost all or the partial ability to work, have starved to death over the past two years, she said.
Kenya is just one of the countries in the Horn of Africa experiencing the most severe drought in the past 40 years induced by climate change. Across the Horn of Africa, more than 36 million people will be affected by the prolonged drought by the end of this year, including 4.5 million in Kenya, as a result of a likely fifth consecutive failed rainy season, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said last month.
Worse, the region may face a sixth failed season between March and May next year, it warned. Already 9.5 million livestock have died across the region, it said.
During a visit to Garissa county in eastern Kenya last month the country's Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua appealed for international aid to help his country fight catastrophic drought.
"We are here today in Garissa to bring a spotlight to the suffering being endured by Kenyans as a result of the global climate crisis," he said. "Our resources cannot be sufficient to address the challenges of climate change."
With the increasing impact of climate change worldwide, the 27th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or COP27, held in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt, last month, gained global attention.
Following intense negotiations between different countries, a historic agreement to provide "loss and damage" funding to vulnerable countries most affected by global climate change was reached, which was applauded by developing countries.
"People who have done the least to cause the climate crisis are paying the highest price," said Mahmoud Mohieldin, the UN Climate Change High-Level Champion for Egypt. "Africa accounts for no more than 3 percent of global emissions, yet many of its people are suffering the most from climate change."
As the continent is most severely affected by the climate crisis, Africa has shown great determination to join other countries to fight climate change by developing renewable energy.
"Energy transition has become a global responsibility for us all, especially in view of the impact of climate change," Ghana's President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo said during COP27, adding that his country is committed to increasing the ratio of renewable energy in its electricity mix, as well as exploring the potential of hydrogen and other clean energy sources.
#234
How the Aramco-China relationship is shaping a brighter future
Recently, the Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Aramco) collaborated with the China Building Materials Academy (CBMA) to launch the Nonmetallic Excellence and Innovation Center for Building Materials (NEXCEL) in Beijing. The center is dedicated to developing and accelerating the application of advanced composite building materials in construction, to create more sustainable building solutions. It will focus on the research and development of non-metallic materials, including petroleum-based polymers that are more durable and have lower lifecycle costs than conventional materials, and which have potential to reduce the carbon footprint of the building industry.
"We hope the center will play a key role in promoting low-carbon infrastructure in China, and contribute to China's goal of achieving emissions peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060. These goals aim to address climate change and promote sustainable development. We believe this requires a global effort and collaboration that spans international boundaries and industries," noted Aramco Asia's President Anwar Al Hejazi. "We celebrated the 30th anniversary of the first shipment of Arabian crude to our Chinese customers in October last year. Apart from continuous and reliable energy supplies, we believe there will be more opportunities to cooperate with China in the future."
Energy and sustainable development
On October 1, 1991, the first tanker loaded with Arab light crude arrived in Southern China. Since then, Aramco has provided a steady, safe and reliable supply of energy to its customers in China. Currently, China is Aramco's largest single market globally. "In 2021, we achieved 99.9 percent supply reliability globally - and our dependable performance has earned Aramco a leading position among China's energy suppliers, meeting around 18 percent of China's import needs in the first ten months of 2022," said Mr Al Hejazi.
Aramco's President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser, told last year's China Development Forum that ensuring the continuing security of China's energy needs remains the company's highest priority, not just for the next five years, but for the next 50 and beyond. China and Aramco share many strategic priorities and this mutually beneficial relationship is powerful combination that can enable sustained - and sustainable - prosperity in the decades ahead.
Aramco has actively taken part in the development of China's energy sector. Currently, the company's presence in China includes refining and petrochemical joint ventures with Chinese partners; and more than 1,000 filling stations in nine cities in a joint venture with Sinopec.
Aramco successfully completed the acquisition of a 70 percent stake in Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC) in June 2020. The completion of that transaction is consistent with Aramco's downstream strategy to grow its integrated refining and petrochemical capacity, and transform Aramco into one of the major global petrochemicals players. "We have the strategy, scale and expanding mix of new and existing products to deliver the practical solutions China needs," said Mr Al Hejazi.
In March, Aramco announced that it had taken a final investment decision to participate in development of a major integrated refinery and petrochemical complex in Northeast China. Huajin Aramco Petrochemical Company (HAPCO) is a joint venture set up by Aramco, North Huajin Chemical Industries Group Corporation and Panjin Xincheng Industrial Group in 2019. The facility, which will be built in the city of Panjin, in China's Liaoning province, will provide refinery capacity of 300,000 barrels per day, as well as an ethylene-based steam cracker. The complex is expected to be operational in 2024.
Aramco also actively takes part in the Chinese government's Belt & Road Initiative. In Saudi Arabia, Aramco and Sinopec have teamed up in the Aramco Sinopec Refining Company in Yanbu, on the Red Sea, jointly producing premium transport fuels and high-value refined products since 2014. Last year, Baoshan Iron & Steel Company (Baosteel), China's biggest listed steelmaker, agreed with Aramco to study building a steel plate factory in Saudi Arabia
Addressing climate change, and contributing to the 'dual carbon' target
As one of the world's leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, Aramco is able to tap into a global network of research centers and international partnerships, including several in China, as it seeks to advance the transition to a low-carbon future.
Aramco established its Beijing Research Center in 2015 to collaborate with leading Chinese research institutions and companies in the fields of geology, geophysics and reservoir engineering - as well as sustainable transportation. The company is also collaborating with Tsinghua University, in Beijing, to test Aramco's flagship Catalytic Crude to Chemicals process. This cutting-edge technology eliminates or streamlines conventional processes, and can reduce the carbon footprint and production cost of chemicals.
Another breakthrough is a state-of-the-art, heavy-duty truck that generates almost zero harmful emissions, which has been developed by Aramco and its partners Tsinghua University, FAWDE and Shandong Chambroad Petrochemicals Company and displayed at the Second World Congress on Internal Combustion Engines (WICE), held in Jinan in April last year. The team achieved this remarkable feat of engineering by optimizing the vehicle's fuel, engine and exhaust systems. This game-changing solution helps improve air quality in big cities, with significant public health benefits.
Additionally, the company is exploring the development of low-carbon products such as blue hydrogen and blue ammonia. Blue hydrogen is a kind of fuel made from fossil fuels, with carbon dioxide produced during its production being captured and stored. It is also expanding its natural gas portfolio and collaborating with Chinese partners in new fields such as synthetic fuels.
"Oil and gas will continue to be critical to the world economy for decades to come. Therefore, new energy sources need to operate in parallel with hydrocarbons for a long time - so reducing the industry's emissions must be a priority for climate goals to be met," said Mr Al Hejazi. To support that goal, Aramco has adopted the Circular Carbon Economy approach - which emphasizes projects that reduce, reuse, recycle and remove emissions. The model, which was also endorsed by G20 energy ministers in November 2020, applies circular economy principles to tackling emissions.
"The Circular Carbon Economy will be key for the future of Aramco's business development," noted Mr Al Hejazi. "Aramco shares the same goal of reducing emissions with China, and our actions aim to help achieve that aim. Aramco sees an opportunity to invest in energy-related infrastructure, as well as advance research and development of new energy sources and improve energy efficiency."
Such ambitions led Aramco in June to disclose a number of interim targets. These include developing the capacity to capture, utilize or store 11 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent (CO2e) annually by 2035, and renewables investment that aims to generate 12GW of solar and wind power by 2030. Ultimately, the company's ambition is to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly-owned and operated assets by 2050.
It is also developing its blue ammonia and hydrogen business, with the aim of producing up to 11 million metric tons of blue ammonia per year by 2030 - with the potential to support significant emissions reductions in hard-to-decarbonize sectors, such as heavy-duty transport, heating, and industrial applications.
More recently, in October the Company announced a $1.5 billion sustainability fund to invest in technology that can support a stable and inclusive energy transition. Last month, it also revealed plans for one of the largest planned carbon capture and storage hubs in the world.
Fulfil social responsibilities, promote cooperation
Apart from focusing on energy security and emissions reduction, Aramco also provides cultural link between Saudi Arabia and China in the shape of jobs, training, scholarships and social projects, which also helps forge closer friendship between the two countries.
Aramco supported the building of three Hope Schools in Liaoning, Fujian and Yunnan. It is also helping underprivileged children complete their secondary education, along with providing support for the performing arts. The company has also provided free medical checkups for more than 5,300 underprivileged children from 11 provinces and regions since the program started in 2018, as well as medical care to more than 100 children who were diagnosed with issues that are more critical.
To foster awareness of sustainability in the younger generation, Aramco Asia sponsored an energy innovation contest at Xiamen University in Fujian province, in July 2017, for students who are interested in clean energy, entrepreneurship, sustainable development and ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The program offers Aramco's professional and technical support to students, with the goal of turning ideas into sustainable solutions that benefit the local community. Last year, Aramco and the Ifeng.com Charity Special Fund launched a 12-month Hand-in-Hand campaign in Xiamen to promote more sustainable lifestyles and raise awareness of the importance of recycling among children and their families.
"Aramco's relationship with China spans more than three decades - and it is a relationship built on far more than oil market dynamics," said Mr Al Hejazi. "From community wellness campaigns to investment in key industries, from scholarships and student exchange programs to important scientific collaborations, Aramco is proud of the bonds that have been built - and excited by the possibilities this presents for the future."
#235
South African government has projected a funding gap of $40 billion (279.1 billion yuan) in its energy transition plans from coal to clean energy.
While briefing the Portfolio Committee on Mineral Resources and Energy on the Just Energy Transition investment plan on Tuesday, Mondli Gungubele, the minister in the presidency, said the plan would require a total investment of $86 billion.
The investment will cover a five-year period focusing on three priority sectors, namely electricity, new energy vehicles and green hydrogen.
Mondli said the electricity sector alone will require an investment of $59.3 billion over a five-year period, to cover infrastructure, just-transition measures in Mpumalanga, and sector-wide as well as municipal support measures.
He said the new energy vehicles sector will require $7.4 billion to transition the automotive sector value chain to protect sector employment and promote sustainable manufacturing.
The green hydrogen sector on the other hand will require $18.4 billion to position the country as a leading exporter and for local use in hard-to-abate sectors, including the provision for port infrastructure.
According to the South Africa's Just Energy Transition Investment Plan for the initial period of five years, 2023-2027, $156 million will be required for skills development as well as $18.4 billion for municipal capacity.
Sahlulele Luzipo, the committee chairperson, said the committee might consider inviting the National Treasury to hear how the investment shortfall will be covered.
South Africa has committed to achieving 420-350 megatonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent by 2030, depending on the level of support received.
While addressing a hybrid special sitting on December 2, Joanne Yawitch, the commissioner for Residential Climate Commission, said the Just Energy Transition Investment Plan is depended on the scale and nature of financial support from international community to complement the domestic resources.
At the COP26, France, Germany, UK, EU and the US forged a Just Energy Transition Partnership, forming the International Partners Group, mandated to mobilize $8.5 billion between 2023 and 2027 to support South Africa's just energy transition.
The funds will be directed to the electricity sector for expansion of transmission grid, decommissioning of coal plants, deployment of renewable energy and supporting economic diversification in affected coal mining areas.
In its Just Energy Transition Investment Plan, South Africa has invited international and local investors and donors to collaborate with the country on the transition journey.
South Africa has been grappling with climate and energy-related risks including shortages of electricity supply, under-investment in the electricity system, as well as physical, social, and transition risks.
The country's high carbon-intensity of production and economic dependency on fossil fuel value chains require specific interventions to manage, according to the Just Energy Transition Investment Plan.
This is in addition to mitigating the transition consequences particularly impacted workers, communities, small business, and exporters' exposure to carbon trade barriers.
It is estimated that the value at risk for the South African economy arising from the energy transition stands at $50 billion.
South Africa is one of the most carbon-intensive developing economies globally, emitting 0.6kilograms of carbon dioxide per dollar of Gross Domestic Product, according to the government data.
It's also the largest carbon emitter in Africa, driving 40 percent of the continent's total emissions. The electricity sector contributes half of the country's greenhouse gas emissions.
#236
Shenzhen's latest push to promote distributed photovoltaic power generation will play a key role in driving the country's green development and helping achieve its carbon neutrality goal by 2060, experts said.
The metropolis in South China's Guangdong province introduced a range of measures on Monday to push forward the industry's development, with an aim to achieve 1.5 gigawatts in newly installed capacity during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25).
The move is part of the city's broader efforts to shift toward green and low-carbon energy to contribute to the country's dual carbon goals of peaking carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060.
According to the government document, launched by the Development and Reform Commission of Shenzhen, the city will promote the construction of BIPV (Building Integrated Photovoltaics) projects in industrial parks, plants, logistics and warehousing bases, public buildings, transport facilities and residential buildings.
The city will strive to cultivate leading industry players by offering support to enterprises and research institutes to enhance their technological levels in developing photovoltaic materials, modules and equipment, and strengthen the entire industry chain.
While social capital is encouraged to be invested in photovoltaic projects, banks and other financial institutions are also urged to provide innovative financial products, services and flexible loan guarantee methods to facilitate financing of such projects, the document said.
The 1.5 GW of newly installed capacity by 2025, if achieved, is expected to attract approximately 6 billion yuan ($858 million) in social investment and create a 6 billion yuan local market, the commission said.
"This will help promote high-quality development of the city's new energy industry and build a new launchpad for green and low-carbon development," it said.
Shenzhen is among a number of Chinese cities that have issued policies to drive the development of the solar power sector.
Beijing launched its energy development blueprint during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25) in April, which mapped out its vision to have 0.7 GW in newly installed capacity for solar power generation in the city's key areas by 2025. Application of photovoltaic power in new residential buildings in urban and rural areas, as well as in renovation projects of aging residential complexes, will be promoted.
A month later, Shanghai also unveiled its energy development plan from 2021 to 2025, aiming to increase its installed capacity of solar power generation by 2.7 GW over the five-year period.
The National Energy Administration said China's cumulative installed capacity of grid-connected solar power facilities hit 306 GW as of the end of last year, with newly installed capacity reaching 53 GW in 2021.
Zhao Tianyi, an analyst at BloombergNEF, said the Shenzhen government's attempt will further promote local green and low-carbon energy transition in the city.
"The mandate can substantially boost newly installed photovoltaic capacity in the city and will play a key role in achieving the government's carbon neutrality goal. It will also encourage the development of distributed photovoltaic as part of a wider vision to make renewable energy a key cornerstone of the country's path to a green economy," Zhao said.
She added Shenzhen's total green building space tops nationwide, and the mandate will combine technological research and development, equipment production, as well as market application to come up with better-quality, higher-efficiency and lower-priced products within a shorter period of time.
Zhao said the government's attempt to connect distributed solar projects with BIPV projects will also ensure green energy is more efficiently and widely utilized.
#237
China's photovoltaic or PV industry is on a fast track of development with new installations and exports hitting record highs, and will stay resilient amid mounting challenges from fiercer global competition and trade uncertainties, experts said.
They made the remarks after reviewing a statement by the US Department of Commerce on Friday that some Chinese solar manufacturers had circumvented tariffs by assembling equipment in Southeast Asia before shipping them to the United States.
Some of the companies concerned, such as BYD Hong Kong, Trina and Vina Solar, said it was a preliminary determination by the US Department of Commerce, and had no impact on them so far. Media reports said the companies assured they will follow up on the subsequent processes.
The US Department of Commerce said on Friday it will conduct further verifications in the coming months and the final determination is currently scheduled for May 1, by which time the companies concerned will get the opportunity to comment on the findings.
Jiang Yali, a solar analyst at energy research provider BloombergNEF, said the anti-circumvention tariffs have a two-year exemption period, so the short-term impact is not significant.
"In fact, US orders of anti-dumping duty and countervailing duty on solar cells and modules will have a bigger influence on their companies and projects, as the inability to expand production capacity enough within a short time to meet domestic demand will only increase the cost of equipment purchases for local projects," she said.
Experts said China's PV industry is facing challenges from trade barriers and other countries' preferential policies to support local PV players. Yet, China's PV industry is on a fast track of development, buoyed by market demand and policy support under China's green commitments.
In the first 10 months of this year, China's newly installed PV capacity hit a record 58 gigawatts, up 98.7 percent year-on-year, said the China Photovoltaic Industry Association.
The total export volume of China's PV products (silicon wafers, cells, modules) was about $44.03 billion during this period, a record high and year-on-year increase of 90.3 percent, the CPIA said.
"With a complete photovoltaic industry chain and comparatively low production costs, China owns a majority of the world's PV supply chain. The country now supplies over 78 percent of the world's crystalline silicon and more than 90 percent of the globe's silicon wafers," Jiang said.
The International Energy Agency released a report in July that said China's share today in all the manufacturing stages of solar panels exceeds 80 percent, and the country is home to the world's top 10 suppliers of solar PV manufacturing equipment.
The IEA also said that China has been instrumental in bringing down costs worldwide for solar PV, with multiple benefits for clean energy transitions.
Wang Bohua, the honorary secretary-general of the CPIA, said many domestic PV manufacturers are now ramping up output to tap the burgeoning market, which may intensify competition and lead to overcapacity.
Wang said Chinese PV manufacturers are also facing fierce global competition as overseas producers are stepping up efforts to promote the development of local PV manufacturing.
In October, the European Commission endorsed a new Solar Photovoltaic Industry Alliance, with the aim of scaling up manufacturing technologies. The commission said on its website the alliance will help the European Union reach over 320 GW of newly installed PV capacity by 2025, and almost 600 GW by 2030.
The US is also supporting its PV development through incentives. In August, the US introduced the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which stipulates $30 billion in production tax credits to accelerate domestic manufacturing of solar panels, wind turbines, batteries and processing of critical minerals.
#238
US-based industrial conglomerate Honeywell is optimistic about the prospects of hydrogen development in China as the country has been sewing up its hydrogen energy plan to further facilitate carbon peak ambitions.
"We are optimistic about the prospects of the hydrogen industry in the country, which is expected to further facilitate China's energy transition," said Henry Liu, vice-president and general manager of Honeywell Performance Materials and Technologies Asia-Pacific.
"Honeywell is willing to further tap the massive potential of the hydrogen market in China and we believe its green ambitions will only accelerate hydrogen development in the country."
Honeywell has been laying out plans in many sectors for hydrogen in China, including hydrogen production as well as raw material applications, he said during the release ceremony of the White Paper of Honeywell Technologies for Hydrogen Industry and Applications in Shanghai earlier this month.
It has recently signed a memorandum of strategic cooperation with Sennics Co Ltd, a subsidiary of Sinochem International Corp, to provide processing technologies and services to Sennics' coal hydrogenation and carbon capture and utilization project. The company has also been providing advanced hydrogen purification technology to Shanghai Baoqing Industry Gas Co, a subsidiary of Baoqing Group, since last year, to facilitate the production and development of hydrogen energy in the Chinese market and promote energy saving and emission reductions in the steel industry, said Honeywell.
Globally, hydrogen has become an important strategic choice for major developed economies seeking to accelerate their energy transformation and upgrading. China is currently the largest hydrogen producer in the world with an annual production output of about 33 million metric tons, according to the National Energy Administration.
Liu believes that hydrogen energy will play an increasingly important role in achieving the goals of carbon peak and carbon neutrality in China, and that with the advancement of technology, large-scale promotion and policy support, China's hydrogen energy industry chain has entered a high-speed development track.
According to a plan on the development of hydrogen energy for the 2021-35 period released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration in March, China will put in place a relatively complete hydrogen energy industry development system by 2025.
By 2030, China will be seeking a reasonable and orderly industrial layout and wide use of hydrogen production from renewable energy to offer solid support for the carbon peaking goal. The proportion of hydrogen produced from renewable energy in terminal energy consumption will increase significantly by 2035, it said.
Energy market intelligence service firm ICIS estimates that China's ambition to peak emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060 will accelerate the development of hydrogen as a fuel for power generation and vehicles.
According to the Hydrogen Industrial Technology Innovation Alliance of China, the country's hydrogen energy industry output value will reach 1 trillion yuan ($140.14 billion) by 2025, while the demand for hydrogen will approach 60 million tons by 2050.
#239
China's pursuit of policies to help the country meet its climate-action commitments is inspiring confidence among experts.
Daniel Wetzel, the head of the tracking sustainable transitions unit at the International Energy Agency, said the indications of rapid progress on China's decarbonization pathway are evident. He said the swift expansion in industrial policy will aid this process, particularly in the power sector.
"On wind and solar, China installs more than anyone else every year and the country will easily surpass its installation targets by 2030," he said at the launch of a report on China's energy transition during the United Nations Climate Change Conference, or COP27, in Egypt on Wednesday.
According to the "China Energy Transformation Outlook 2023: Special Report for COP27", wind and solar photovoltaic, or PV, power generation accounted for 7.8 percent and 3.9 percent, respectively, of total power generation last year.
The report said the installed capacity of wind and solar PV power generation both exceeded 300 gigawatts, and wind power's share exceeded 10 percent for the first time.
"With the advance of large-scale wind and solar PV development, China has made a good start and new breakthroughs in the field of non-fossil energy for the 14th Five-Year Plan period until 2025," the report said.
China aims to reach a peak in carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.
The country is aiming for 1,200 gigawatts of wind and solar generation capacity by 2030 in its nationally determined contribution commitment.
"For the first time in history, non-fossil energy capacity exceeded coal power, and the installed capacity of renewable energy exceeded 1 billion kilowatts. In 2021, an additional 137 GW of non-fossil energy were installed, accounting for 78 percent of the country's newly installed capacity," the report said.
China's switch to green energy has been reinforced in a series of policy documents. Other documents have covered action on industrial carbon; green and low-carbon transportation; and on carbon reduction with the circular economy.
In the transportation sector, China sold more than 3.5 million new-energy vehicles last year.
Nan Zhou, a senior scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, said China needs to further improve the efficiency of its industries. She also said electric vehicles would make even deeper inroads.
#241
Steps to help developing countries, climate stressed as summit closes
The Group of 20 Summit closed on Wednesday with leaders of the world's largest economies and international organizations committing to concrete action that can help revive a global economy battered by the pandemic, climate change and geopolitical tensions.
Indonesian President Joko Widodo, whose country held the presidency of the G20 this year, presented the G20 Bali Leaders' Declaration, which was adopted on the resort island of Bali.
In his closing speech, Widodo said Indonesia's presidency of the group produced concrete deliverables such as a list of cooperation projects that can help bring the work of the G20 closer to the people and ensure that all benefit. He also reiterated the G20 theme, "Recover together, recover stronger", in urging fellow leaders to press forward on these goals.
Widodo concluded the group's 17th summit by handing over the gavel symbolizing the G20 presidency to India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
In a news briefing after the two-day summit, Widodo listed the "concrete, tangible actions" that have been undertaken under Indonesia's stewardship of the group this year. These include the $1.4 billion Pandemic Fund that aims to help developing countries cope with future pandemics and other global health threats.
Widodo also cited the Just Energy Transition Partnership between Indonesia and the International Partners Group. With the United States and Japan as the program's joint leads, it also brings together the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the European Union, Canada, Italy, Norway, and Denmark.
Under the partnership, Indonesia will mobilize $20 billion over the next three to five years so that it can retire coal plants and accelerate its shift toward renewable energy sources.
'Critical moment'
In the declaration, the G20 leaders noted that the global economy is at its "critical moment", making it essential for the group to undertake "tangible, precise, swift and necessary actions, using all available policy tools, to address common challenges, including through international macro policy cooperation and concrete collaborations".
The declaration adds: "In doing so, we remain committed to supporting developing countries, particularly the least developed and small island developing states, in responding to these global challenges and achieving the sustainable development goals."
The leaders said they will take coordinated actions to advance an agenda for a strong, inclusive and resilient global recovery and sustainable development that delivers jobs and growth. To achieve this aim, they affirmed that they will be flexible in their macroeconomic policy responses.
They have also committed to long-term fiscal sustainability by using all available tools to mitigate risks. The leaders noted the steps taken during the global financial crisis and how to strengthen financial resilience and promote sustainable finance and capital flows.
In addition, they vowed to promote food and energy security and stabilize markets, providing temporary and targeted support to cushion the impact of price increases.
The leaders also aim to strengthen dialogue between producers and consumers, and increase trade and investments for long-term food and energy security needs.
The leaders also wish to unlock further investments for low- and middle-income and other developing countries through innovative financing sources.
"We commit to protecting the most vulnerable from hunger by using all available tools to address the global food crisis. We will take further coordinated actions to address food security challenges including price surges and shortage of food commodities and fertilizers globally," the G20 leaders said.
Widodo said the leadership of the G20 has also called for an end to the Ukraine-Russia conflict, which has hurt a world economy still reeling from the pandemic. He said this was the most contentious provision and that the leaders had intense debates before reaching an agreement.
#242
Newly added renewable capacity to be exempt from energy consumption cap
Newly added renewable capacity will be exempt from energy consumption caps to further promote clean and low-carbon energy transformation and ensure high-quality development in the country, the government said on Wednesday.
Consumption of newly added renewable energy, including wind, solar, hydro, biomass and geothermal power, will not be included in the total energy consumption control in China, said a statement jointly released by the National Development and Reform Commission, the National Bureau of Statistics and the National Energy Administration on Wednesday.
Based on electricity consumption from renewable energy sources in 2020, the annual increase in power consumption from renewable sources compared with the previous year will be deducted from the assessment of total national and local energy consumption, according to the statement.
The green certificate will be the basic certificate of renewable energy power consumption identification and the government will also actively promote the construction of the green certificate trading market, as well as the participation of renewable energy in green certificate trading, it said.
China's "dual control" policy - controlling energy consumption and energy intensity - has been a key driver of China's decarbonization since its implementation in 2006. The nation is committed to reducing the energy intensity of its economy by 13.5 percent between 2021 and 2025.
An analyst believes this will have a positive impact on China's emissions trajectory while the discounting of renewable energy from consumption totals will remove a key barrier to developing renewables fast enough to reach carbon neutrality by 2060.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at BloombergNEF, said the energy intensity targets and caps on total energy consumption have helped drive its energy transition and low-carbon development.
"The exemption of using renewables in total energy consumption helps remove a cap on the overall growth of enterprises and stimulates local development," Wei said.
"It will also pass on the stimulus for renewable energy investment."
The Institute of Climate Change and Sustainable Development at Tsinghua University estimated that energy intensity will have to be reduced by 14 percent between 2020 and 2025 to put China on course to peak carbon emissions by 2030.
#243
Offshore areas of China will become a major energy growth driver in the country for years to come, especially in the oil and gas sector, in which its increment will come mostly from offshore resources in China, analysts said.
China's offshore crude increment last year accounted for a record high of more than 80 percent of the country's total growth volume, while the exploitation of offshore natural gas resources is also steadily advancing toward ultra-deep waters, said the Energy Economics Institute under the China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC), the country's largest offshore driller.
The institute believes that China's offshore oil and gas output will continue increasing this year. Offshore crude output will rise 5.4 percent to 57.6 million metric tons, accounting for around 80 percent of the country's total crude increment. Offshore natural gas production will exceed 20 billion cubic meters, up 6.7 percent year-on-year and making up around 12 percent of the country's gas increment, it said.
The Chinese market remains resilient, and the country's carbon peak and neutrality ambitions and its energy transition will further accelerate the development of its offshore energy production, it said.
Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF, said China's offshore oil and gas output has great upside potential in the years to come.
CNOOC, for example, expects its oil and gas production to rise more than 6 percent each year during the 2022-24 period, while its continuous upstream investment and production commitment will also play a critical role in China's energy supply security, Li said.
CNOOC accounted for more than half of China's total oil and gas output growth in 2021, while the driller is also seeking to use its engineering prowess to become a major player in offshore wind power projects, she said.
The company said earlier that it would further take advantage of the company's offshore advantages while laying out the new energy industry to enhance its position as the country's top offshore oil and gas driller.
CNOOC's offshore oil and gas production projects are ranked tops in the world, according to the China Offshore Energy Report drafted by the institute this year.
CNOOC will conduct oil exploration, focusing on increasing the storage capacity of oil and gas, and adopting advanced technologies to bolster China's energy security and reduce its reliance on foreign energy sources, said Wang Dongjin, chairman of CNOOC.
According to the report, China is one of the most active regions for offshore exploration and ranks fourth in newly launched offshore oil and gas production projects.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, believes the country's offshore oil and gas output will continue increasing this year.
For example, the exploration breakthrough this year of offshore shale oil, the unconventional product derived from shale rock fragments, represents a major technological milestone, he said.
CNOOC tapped the commercial flow of oil and gas from a shale exploration well in the Beibu Gulf Basin of the South China Sea in July, the first successfully drilled offshore shale oil well in China. The Beibu Gulf Basin holds around 1.2 billion tons of prospective shale oil resources with broad prospects for future exploration, said CNOOC.
Luo added that China's acceleration of offshore oil and gas exploitation in recent years will further ensure national energy security while helping facilitate the dual-circulation development paradigm and cultivate new competitive advantages in the coming years.
China's technology in fields of deep-water oil and gas exploration and exploitation has been advancing in recent years, and CNOOC is expected to go deeper and further in the sphere in the future, said Luo.
According to CNOOC, the company has been stepping up cooperation with international oil companies in recent years, including Hague-based Royal Dutch Shell, California-based Chevron, Houston-based ConocoPhillips, France's Total, Norway's Equinor, Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration, Calgary-based Husky Energy, Sydney-headquartered Roc Oil and South Korea's SK Innovation to seek oil and gas in offshore China.
The company has also invited foreign companies to bid for domestic blocks to further tap the potential of China's offshore oil and gas development with mutually beneficial cooperation.
The offshore oil industry, which usually requires high investment, advanced technological development and high risk, is one of the industries attracting the most foreign investment in the country, it said.
#244
The export of the first cargo shipment of China National Petroleum Corp's liquefied natural gas project in Mozambique will not only increase diversification of energy supplies, but also support a just and sustainable energy transition, said an analyst.
The oil tanker British Sponsor left Mozambican territorial waters on Sunday, carrying the first cargo of LNG produced by the Coral South Floating Liquefied Natural Gas (FLNG) project in the north of the African country, said CNPC.
Integrating the world's most cutting-edge deep-sea LNG technology, Coral South FLNG contains a floating production platform installed 80 kilometers offshore Mozambique in the southern part of Area 4 of the Rovuma Basin. It has a production capacity of 3.4 million tons of LNG per year from wells located in 2,000-meter deep water with a design life of 25 years, said the company.
Being Africa's largest and the world's second-largest FLNG project, Coral South FLNG is the pioneering part of Mozambique's Area 4 mega gas project, which is a joint venture bringing together Italy's ENI, ExxonMobil of the United States, CNPC, Mozambique's ENH, Galp from Portugal and South Korea's KOGAS.
An analyst said the first shipment of LNG from Mozambique is a new and significant step forward in CNPC's strategy to leverage gas as a source that can contribute in a significant way to China's energy security.
"The commissioning of Mozambique's Coral South project will provide much-needed LNG cargo as the northern hemisphere is heading into winter," said Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF.
"It comes as welcome news when several LNG supply projects are not delivering as much LNG as expected."
The shipment also marks the beginning of Mozambique's emergence as a producer and exporter of LNG in the global market, said CNPC.
Dai Houliang, chairman of CNPC, said Mozambique's Area 4 mega gas project - CNPC's largest single overseas investment project - is another successful effort by CNPC to promote green, low-carbon transformation and help achieve the goal of carbon neutrality.
As an important outcome of China-Mozambique energy cooperation, the project will better drive local economic and social development, he said.
Coral South is a landmark project for the industry and firmly places Mozambique onto the global LNG stage. The project, sanctioned in 2017, has come onstream in just five years.
Zheng Jianhua, general manager of CNPC Mozambique, said it was a successful practice of CNPC to promote green low-carbon energy transition through the Coral South FLNG project.
"During the 60-month construction period, we have overcome multiple challenges such as the COVID pandemic and the security situation at the project site, as well as technical difficulties, making the project the only FLNG project in the world to start production on schedule during the same period," said Zheng.
#245
Leaders tell COP27 of how investment plans for energy transition are firming up
African leaders are embracing green energy solutions for their nations as a means of boosting economic development while easing the effects of climate change.
A number of leaders from the continent spoke of their commitment to an energy transition during sessions of the United Nations Climate Change Conference, or COP27, in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt. They have joined other world leaders in seeking to chart a pathway toward limiting global warming to 1.5 C.
Ghanaian President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo said his country is committed to increasing the share of renewable energy in its electricity generation mix, as well as exploring the potential of hydrogen and other clean energy sources.
"Energy transition has become a global responsibility for us all, especially in view of the impact of climate change," he said, adding that the global energy crisis caused by the Russia-Ukraine conflict has also highlighted the need for a new approach.
Akufo-Addo said Ghana has developed an energy transition framework to guide the country in its transition to a net-zero economy by 2070 and minimize the impact from possible stranded assets and job losses in the oil and gas sector. He said the cost of this shift has been estimated at $562 billion.
The president said the framework provides a sustainable pathway for fuel supply security, energy diversification and cost-efficient electricity generation, with an estimated generation tariff of less than $4.5 cents per kilowatt-hour.
"Ghana aims to achieve universal access by 2024. The energy transition framework will meet future electricity demand of 380 terawatt-hours, with a corresponding installed capacity of 83 gigawatts," he said.
South African President Cyril Ramaphosa said his cabinet recently endorsed an investment plan as the basis for the country's pathway toward a low-carbon society.
He said the plan outlines investment priorities over the next five years and will focus on electricity transmission and distribution networks while expanding renewable energy sources.
Ramaphosa said South Africa will need $98 billion over the next five years for the transition, enabling the country to achieve the targets set out in its nationally determined contribution. "To succeed, we will need to ensure that financial support includes a significantly larger grant funding component," he said.
Strong commitment
Kenyan President William Ruto said his country has vast hydrocarbon and coal deposits, yet the electricity grid is 93 percent green, an achievement he attributes to a strong commitment to tackling climate change.
During COP27, Kenya signed a framework agreement for collaboration on the development of sustainable green industries with an investor to produce 30 gigawatts of green hydrogen in the country, Ruto told the delegates.
He said Kenya has the potential to produce 20 gigawatts of wind power, 10 gigawatts of geothermal electricity and considerable amounts of solar energy.
"Green energy production opportunities are vast in Kenya and throughout Africa. In the East African Community, for example, there exists sufficient hydroelectric potential to produce 100,000 megawatts and, if properly exploited, it could generate enough clean energy for the whole continent," Ruto said.
He called on developed countries to take advantage of the clean energy potential in Africa to direct industrial investments to the continent.
#246
The G20 Summit will serve as a platform for Indonesia to showcase one of its most promising industries: the production of electric vehicles, or EVs.
More than 6,000 EVs - including buses, cars and motorcycles - will be traversing the resort island of Bali next week to take delegates to the summit. These vehicles were made by major automakers with stakes in Indonesia's EV industry, including China's Wuling Motors, Japan's Toyota Motor and South Korea's Hyundai Motor. Indonesia's state-owned utility Perusahaan Listrik Negara will be operating charging stations for the vehicles.
EVs are now a "global trend" and are considered an "energy transition strategy in many parts of the world", according to Fabby Tumiwa, executive director of the Institute for Essential Services Reform, a think tank in Jakarta.
Tumiwa said that by using green vehicles for the summit, Indonesia has reaffirmed that sustainable energy transition is a priority of its presidency of the G20, which comprises leading developed and emerging economies.
Energy transition
Their use at the gathering of world leaders on Nov 15 and 16 will "also signal that Indonesia is ready to (undergo) energy transition", said Tumiwa.
Indonesian President Joko Widodo has been promoting the EV sector for years, with its development seen as a way to push renewable energy and reduce carbon emissions in line with the Paris Agreement on climate change.
In 2019, Widodo issued a presidential decree that granted tax breaks and other incentives to potential investors in the sector.
Widodo has invited car manufacturers to invest in Indonesia. In May, he met Tesla chief executive Elon Musk to try to persuade the world's biggest EV maker to set up shop in Indonesia.
But Tesla is not the only carmaker that Indonesia has been targeting. In March, Hyundai opened an EV manufacturing plant in West Java. Toyota is considering investing 27.1 trillion rupiahs ($1.73 billion) in Indonesia over the next five years to produce EVs, while Mitsubishi Motors plans to invest about 10 trillion rupiahs in the next three years to produce hybrid and battery EVs.
In April, state-owned Indonesia Battery Corporation signed on to a $15 billion battery development project with China's Ningbo Contemporary Brunp Lygend and South Korea's LG Energy Solution.
Putra Adhiguna, an energy analyst, said that Indonesia's deployment of green vehicles for the G20 Summit is "a good start, but current plans for pushing (the use of) EVs on Indonesia's roads will need to be more ambitious".
Idoan Marciano, a consultant in Jakarta, said the biggest hurdle in EV development is "the gap between the public's willingness to pay and the average upfront cost of EVs".
He said China can help in this process, noting that Chinese EVs "might be better suited for the Indonesian public" given their affordability.
#247
With the global community looking forward to the 27th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or COP27, which opened on Sunday in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt, Kenyan President William Ruto has already made climate change a key agenda for his new administration. His debut commitment is to have Kenya attain a 30 percent forest cover by 2032.
According to government reports, over the past 10 years, the impacts of climate change in Kenya have resulted in socioeconomic losses estimated at 3 to 5 percent of the country's annual GDP. This has led to a setback in the realization of Kenya's Vision 2030 in the context of climate change mitigation, despite the country having negligible greenhouse gas emissions.
Thus, for Kenya to win the fight against climate change, it needs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through multilateral and bilateral partnerships with like-minded allies. China has been an ally and continues to be a strategic partner of Kenya in the fight against climate change.
For starters, China's involvement in the fight against the impacts of climate change in Kenya has been visible through its renewable energy projects.
The 50-megawatt solar power station plant in Garissa County in Northern Kenya is one of the largest photovoltaic electricity plants in Africa. The project, which began in 2016 and was financed by the Chinese government through concessional loans from the Export-Import Bank of China, was completed by China Jiangxi Corp for International Economic and Technical Cooperation.
The Garissa solar power plant has more than 206,000 solar panels and occupies an estimated 210 acres. As a sustainable development project, the solar plant is estimated to address the power demand of 70,000 households (approximately 350,000 people) in Kenya. The solar plant has also increased the share of renewable energy on the grid to 93 percent, setting the stage for cheaper electricity in Kenya.
Institutionalizing the fight against climate change in Kenya and elsewhere in Africa, China's Ministry of Ecology and Environment and the United Nations' Environment Programme jointly launched the China-Africa Environmental Cooperation Center in Kenya in 2018.
The center supports member countries in achieving the UN's 2030 Sustainable Development Goals and the African Union's Agenda 2063. It also focuses on South-South cooperation on environmental issues and adheres to principles of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development.
Regarding private enterprise partnership, during the Huawei FusionSolar Eastern Africa Partner Summit, held in Nairobi in June, Chinese tech giant Huawei pledged to support Kenya to upscale green energy adoption and hasten low-carbon growth.
Huawei is also committed to supporting the training of students in green energy technologies to ensure that future generations in Kenya will provide solutions to enable the country to strengthen climate change adaptation and mitigation.
However, Kenyan President Ruto's administration needs to push for more cooperation with China in combating climate change and promoting energy transition. Kenya needs to utilize its abundant renewable energy resources such as geothermal, wind and solar to reduce the energy shortage.
First, wind energy in the nation has the potential to generate 3,000 MW. The Lake Turkana Wind Power Plant is the largest wind power generation plant in Africa, supplying 310 MW to the grid, while the Ngong Hills Wind Power Station is providing approximately 25 MW.
Second, geothermal is still the most significant source of renewable energy, with an estimated potential of 10,000 MW, according to the Kenyan Ministry of Energy. However, geothermal energy remains relatively unexploited, with a current installed capacity of less than 863 MW.This notwithstanding, Kenya is the eighth-largest geothermal producer in the world, boasting the largest geothermal power plant - the 280-MW Olkaria IV plant.
Third, the Kenyan Ministry of Energy estimates that solar energy has the potential to generate about 15,000 MW.
Fourth, as a new frontier, Kenya has established a nuclear power cooperation agreement with China. The cooperation enables Kenya to obtain expertise and technical support. Kenya has also signed agreements with other partners like Russia, South Korean nuclear power companies and Slovenia, with the aim of becoming a nuclear power producer by 2035. Kenya is also working with the International Atomic Energy Agency as it builds capacity in nuclear energy.
Finally, Kenya and China need to work together to fast-track the implementation of the 2021 Dakar Declarations - developing the "Great Green Wall", undertaking 10 green development, environmental protection and climate action projects, and building centers of excellence in low-carbon development and climate change adaptation in Africa.
China and Kenya need to accelerate their cooperation in the areas of research and innovation as well as energy transition to curb the negative impacts of climate change. This can be achieved while taking into consideration their common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
#248
United Kingdom and Chinese companies shared their carbon-busting strategies at a conference in London this week, including an oil and gas giant going green and an iconic British car brand ditching petrol engines.
The 5th China-UK Economic and Trade Forum saw 300 political, business, and academic figures join together in the capital to discuss the future of the Sino-British relationship, with regional development strategies and the road to net-zero top of the agenda.
China's Ambassador to the UK Zheng Zeguang said that both nations are "well positioned to enhance exchanges" on the climate response and said that China will continue to "pursue green and sustainable development and will work to avoid ecological degradation".
The UK has set a target of achieving net-zero emissions by 2050, and China has committed to a 2060 deadline. At the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow last year, known as COP26, the Chinese delegation encouraged countries to commit to "action, not empty slogans".
Stephen Perry, who is chairman of the 48 Group Club, a non-profit organization that promotes China-UK trade and commerce links, said the UK and other western powers could learn from China's energy transition.
"Glasgow was the time when reality took over from the headlines," Perry told China Daily at this week's trade conference, which was hosted by the China Chamber of Commerce in the UK. "Most of the nation-states were talking in soundbites to sound good. What China did was say 2060, and it is not a figure we have taken out of the air, we have been working for the last 30 years to figure out how we can get to zero."
He added: "China is absolutely committed to 2060, and it will happen, that's how China works. It doesn't make these targets and then work out how to get there; they make these targets as a consequence of working out how to get there and how long it will take. We can learn from China, long-term planning is key."
Along with committing to emissions targets, both the UK and China have encouraged businesses to develop carbon-cutting strategies.
During a panel dedicated to China-UK actions in the pursuit of net-zero, Corinna Fletcher, who is the organizational development director at car manufacturer Lotus, outlined her company's fossil fuel-free future.
Fletcher said that the company, which is majority-owned by Chinese automaker Geely, designed its last combustion engine this year.
"All of our new product launches from 2023 will be all-electric vehicles," she said. "We have committed to cutting emissions and leading our industry in minimizing impact on the environment, benefiting society and the planet as a whole. Customers are demanding more sustainable products, so there is also a really strong commercial argument."
Lotus has been making cars for 74 years, and the company grew to prominence with its Formula 1 racing team, which won seven championships. Geely took a 51 percent controlling stake in the company in 2017, and the Chinese carmaker has invested heavily in the switch to electric. Geely also owns the London Electric Vehicle Company, which produces the electric model of the London black taxi.
At the trade conference, Keith Martin, who is senior vice president of PetroChina International, outlined the company's plans to shift from fossil fuel production to renewable energy. PetroChina, which is China's largest oil and gas producer, aims for renewables to comprise one-third of its energy portfolio by 2030, increasing to 50 percent by 2050. The company also plans to peak carbon emissions by 2025, and target net-zero for 2050.
"PetroChina has embraced the energy transition with vigor," Martin said. "And we feel a wave of support from China to get to that net-zero target."
The conference also heard from Andrew Bissell, founder of Scottish company Sunamp, which makes smart thermal storage solutions. Thermal batteries provide low-carbon heating and hot water for buildings, and the technology helps to stabilize grids that run on renewable power, which is a fluctuating power source.
Sunamp recently signed a 50-million-pound ($55.8-million) partnership with Chinese company Thumos, which includes the installation of 400 batteries into high-end apartments in Shanghai. Sunamp technology is also used in some social housing in the UK.
"I want to do it for every home in China, I want to do it for every home in the UK, I want to do it for every home in the world," said Bissell.
#249
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Thursday called for multilateralism and diplomacy to make the upcoming UN Climate Change Conference 2022 (COP27) in Egypt "turning points for hope".
"COP27 must be the place to rebuild trust and re-establish the ambition needed to avoid driving our planet over the climate cliff," the UN chief said in a press encounter.
In the last few weeks, report after report has painted a clear and bleak picture -- emissions are still growing at record levels, Guterres said, adding that temperatures are also on course to rise by as much as 2.8 degrees.
"And that means our planet is on course for reaching tipping points that will make climate chaos irreversible. We need to move from tipping points to turning points for hope," he said.
It is time for a historic pact between the developed and emerging economies -- a pact in which developed countries deliver on the commitment made in Paris -- to help emerging economies speed their renewable energy transition, said Guterres.
"COP27 must be the place to close the ambition gap, the credibility gap and the solidarity gap. The world must come together to support developing countries and vulnerable communities," he said. 
#250
Global manufacturers spending big for expertise in software, electrification
Major foreign automakers are looking to Chinese companies for their expertise in smart electric vehicles as established giants are ramping up efforts to charge into the burgeoning sector.
BMW announced recently that it will purchase newly developed round lithium-ion battery cells from Envision AESC, the battery-making arm of Chinese company Envision Group, for its EVs to be manufactured in the United States.
"The new round cell specially designed for the electrical architecture of our next-generation models will allow us to improve range, driving performance and reduce charging times," said Joachim Post, a BMW board member responsible for its purchasing and supplier network.
Envision AESC is planning to build a dedicated 30 gigawatt-hour battery manufacturing plant in South Carolina, and work is currently underway to finalize a suitable site close to BMW's vehicle production and battery assembly facilities.
This is the third Chinese battery cell maker that BMW has inked deals with in the past 40 days. In early September, the German carmaker unveiled its agreements with Contemporary Amperex Technology Co Ltd and EVE Energy to power new-generation electric models starting in 2025.
The two battery companies will build battery plants in both China and Europe. Their new round cells, which Envision AESC will produce in the US, will enable a major leap for BWM's EVs with regard to energy density, charging speed and range, said the carmaker.
BMW's cumulative EV sales are expected to reach 2 million units by 2025, and EV sales will account for at least half of its global sales by 2030.
CATL has been a supplier to BMW for years. "We look forward to developing and delivering more competitive and sustainable solutions for our partners to promote the global drive for e-mobility and energy transition," said Robin Zeng, founder and chairman of CATL.
BMW is not alone. Volkswagen is spending 2.4 billion euros ($2.35 billion), its largest single investment in China, to develop driving-assist functions with Horizon Robotics for its EVs.
Establishment of a joint venture is underway and is expected to be complete in the first half of 2023, said Volkswagen, adding that its software arm Cariad will hold a 60 percent share in the partnership.
Beijing-based Horizon is one of the major players in China providing computing solutions for smart vehicles, specializing in software, algorithms and chip design.
Ralf Brandstaetter, chairman and CEO of Volkswagen Group China, said China has been the world leader in intelligent and connected vehicles since 2015 and is "always faster than expected".
Brandstaetter attributed China's leading role to factors like the country's clear guidelines, as well as the cooperation between the government, scientific institutions and companies.
"The best possible way to harness this trend of innovation and strengthen our competitive edge is to immerse ourselves in this ecosystem," said Brandstaetter.
Brandstaetter said some weeks ago, he test-drove an electric Volkswagen ID.4 SUV featuring technology that Cariad and Horizon are working on together. "It was an amazing experience," he said.
In terms of electrification, Chinese company Gotion is serving as a pillar of Volkswagen's growth plan.
Volkswagen acquired a 26 percent share in the Anhui-based battery maker in 2020. Last year, it was entrusted with the task of developing the first-generation unified cells for its volume vehicle segment.
Gotion is also tasked with fast-cell industrialization at Volkswagen's Salzgitter plant in Germany as the "technology partner for the cell factory layout, machinery and production processes". Production is expected to start around 2025.
Tesla said on Thursday that its first overseas plant, located in Shanghai, is "supplying vehicles to most markets outside of North America". The plant, as Tesla's major export hub, has an annual production capacity of over 750,000 units.
Tesla said more than 95 percent of the auto parts used in its Shanghai-made vehicles are from China and almost all the employees at the plant are Chinese nationals.
China is emerging as the main source of supplies in the global auto industry primarily, thanks to its first-mover advantage, said Zhang Yongwei, vice-president of China EV 100, a major think tank in the new energy vehicle sector.
Zhang said the rise of local companies along the industrial chain has a lot to do with China's faster pace toward electrification, which started in earnest in 2009 when most countries thought it was too early to develop the sector.
SNE Research shows that six out of the world's top 10 battery makers in the first half were from China.
China EV 100 said carmakers in China launched 33 passenger electric and plug-in hybrid models in the first half, accounting for 60 percent of total newly launched passenger vehicles in the period, bringing the total number of EV model types to around 300 in the country.
#251
United States oil and gas company ConocoPhillips said it is exploring opportunities to supply more liquefied natural gas from its current and future projects to the Chinese market for its growing demand for LNG.
"Regardless of the near-term uncertainty, our commitment to supplying LNG to China on a long-term basis will remain unchanged," said Bill Bullock, executive vice-president and chief financial officer of ConocoPhillips.
"Nearly 10 million metric tons per annum LNG from our worldwide joint venture projects has been shipped to China to support the country's energy transition goals since 2016. We delivered the first US LNG cargo from Alaska to China in 2011," Bullock said.
"With our growing LNG portfolio, we look forward to more cooperation opportunities that help meet China's growing energy demand and energy transition goals."
China led the world in LNG imports last year with nearly 80 million metric tons, up 19 percent from the year before. Such an amount of LNG represented 65 percent of China's overall natural gas imports, and 30 percent of its total natural gas supply in 2021.
ConocoPhillips expects LNG to play an increasingly important role in helping meet the energy transition pathway demand, as it is lower in greenhouse gas emissions intensity than other alternatives like coal.
China is expected to attract more international energy suppliers with its burgeoning natural gas demand and global energy behemoths are already stepping up their existing LNG business to expand their presence in the country, said Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF.
"Global energy giants are showing a growing interest in China's robust LNG market," Li said.
"In addition to the signing of LNG sales and purchase agreements with Chinese companies, some international oil corporations have extended their cooperation ranging from participation in LNG receiving terminals to downstream LNG trading in the country."
China's LNG imports have been gaining momentum since 2016.However, due to the rising import prices, China's gas and LNG demand is expected to slow down in 2022, after solid growth in 2021.
China's LNG imports are set to fall over 14 percent year-on-year to 69 million tons this year, said energy research and consultancy Wood Mackenzie earlier.
Bill Arnold, president of ConocoPhillips China, said in addition to LNG, the company hopes to deliver more oil to China in the future, while the company has also been actively evaluating opportunities in larger offshore wind farms, power from shore, and carbon capture and storage in China.
The company, together with China National Offshore Oil Corp, has been progressing with the Penglai offshore wind farm pilot project, which will deliver wind power to Penglai, Shandong province, to reduce emissions and costs, Arnold said.
The project is a first-of-its-kind integration of offshore wind power for offshore oil and gas facilities in China, and we expect it will be the benchmark for future low-carbon emission and intelligent oilfield developments, ConocoPhillips China said.
"As one of the largest foreign investors in the upstream oil and gas sector in China, ConocoPhillips has been impressed with and has benefited from China's rapid economic growth during the past four decades," Arnold said.
"The visible efforts of Chinese policymakers in reforming the sector during the past few years are encouraging. We look forward to working together with our local partners to continue to drive forward the development of the industry."
Bullish on China's green market, the company's president in China said he believes "China will play a vital role in the global energy transition and the reform and opening-up efforts of the Chinese government will continue to enable ConocoPhillips to pursue new opportunities and help China to fulfill its growing energy needs".
Dominic Macklon, executive vice-president of strategy, sustainability and technology for ConocoPhillips, said, "Conoco-Phillips is planning to join the fifth China International Import Expo for the first time as an exhibitor this year.
"CIIE provides an important platform to promote greater collaboration and cooperation. We look forward to enhancing industry dialogues with multiple stakeholders in China."
#252
Steady growth tipped, particularly for solar power installation
Supported by full supply chains and robust policy measures, China has achieved leapfrog development in renewable energy in recent years, with its installed capacity ranking top globally.
After years of development, the nation is the world's largest producer of wind and solar power, as well as the largest domestic and outbound investor in renewable energy, according to the National Energy Administration.
In the past 10 years, total installed capacity for renewable energy generation in China rose to 1.1 billion kilowatts, with generation capacity of hydropower, wind, solar and biomass ranking top worldwide. The combined installed capacity of wind and solar power has reached 670 million kWs, almost 90 times the level in 2012, the administration said.
During the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) period, China's renewable energy generation capacity is expected to account for more than 50 percent of the total, and the generation capacity for wind and solar power will be doubled, further cementing the nation's role as a global leader in renewable energy capacity growth, according to the administration.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research company BloombergNEF, said part of the reason for this rapid development is China's unparalleled advantages in boosting clean power installation due to massive demand from the domestic market. State-owned grid operators have also made efforts to ensure renewables are consumed, rather than wasted.
"Renewable energy has become the principal source of the country's newly added installed generation capacity in recent years, especially solar and wind power. China leads globally in installed capacities for wind, photovoltaic, hydro and biomass power, as it presses ahead with a green development path," Wei said.
He believes the nation's renewable energy sector will see steady growth and that solar power, in particular, will witness further widespread installations.
China's rapid development of renewable energy has also attracted multinationals. Shell plc, SABIC and Honeywell have announced plans in recent years to invest in the nation's renewable energy sector due to its rapid growth momentum and huge potential. Global energy and chemical giants are drawing up local plans that cover a broad range of subsectors such as petrochemicals, hydrogen, vehicle charging stations and carbon capture, utilization and storage, or CCUS.
Shell plc, which is based in London, has steadily invested in China's renewable energy market in recent years. Part of the company's blueprint is to expand its hydrogen footprint in the country by building a network of hydrogen refueling stations in Shanghai - Shell's first hydrogen refueling network in Asia - in cooperation with State-owned enterprise Shenergy Group Co.
The joint venture said it plans to build six to 10 hydrogen refueling stations in Shanghai and the Yangtze River Delta region in the next five years, rising to 30 stations by 2030.
Shell also expressed optimism about the prospects for CCUS in China, believing it is essential to helping the nation achieve a carbon emission peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060.
Jason Wong, executive chairman of Shell Companies in China, said the nation's significant geological potential for storing carbon - it has an estimated 2,400 gigatons of storage capacity, second only to that of the United States - means there is plenty of potential to tap.
US energy company ExxonMobil has announced that it will cooperate with China National Offshore Oil Corp and Shell plc to develop a carbon capture and storage, or CCS, hub in Huizhou, Guangdong province. The facility, China's first large-scale offshore CCS hub capable of capturing up to 10 million metric tons of carbon dioxide annually, will significantly reduce carbon dioxide emissions and meet the decarbonization needs of enterprises in the area.
Transition stepped up
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said foreign investment in China's energy sector is expected to rise as the nation continues to step up its green energy transition, with the aim of becoming carbon neutral by 2060.
"Leading in renewable energy production figures for years, China has a market potential that no other country can match," he said.
State-owned energy enterprises are also helping the country's green energy transition by optimizing their business.
For example, China Petrochemical Corp, also known as Sinopec - the world's largest refiner by volume - has continuously boosted its green hydrogen manufacturing capacity and expanded its hydrogen refueling network across the country.
Taking advantage of its nationwide gas refueling network, the company has actively built its hydrogen refueling network in China. It aims for the refueling capacity for this gas to reach 120,000 tons per year by 2025.
Sinopec has stepped up work at its refinery using green hydrogen, which is derived from renewable sources including solar and wind. It is also working to increase the use of renewable energy in hydrogen production to gradually replace fossil fuel in the refinery sector. The aim is to gain a lead in the high-quality development of the nation's hydrogen market and promote the consumption of cleaner energy in the transportation and industrial sectors.
Thanks to these efforts, China has developed a complete industrial system for renewable energy technology during the past 10 years. The nation now independently designs and manufactures the world's largest megawatt-scale hydraulic turbine set. Solar power generation technology has witnessed rapid development, and 10 offshore wind turbines have also entered volume production, according to the energy administration.
As a result, the scale of development and use of renewable energy in China was equivalent to 753 million tons of standard coal last year, reducing 2.07 billion tons of carbon dioxide, 400,000 tons of sulfur dioxide and 450,000 tons of nitrogen oxide, the administration said.
The nation's rapid development of renewable energy has further boosted global employment. According to the recently released Renewable Energy and Jobs Annual Review 2022 from the International Renewable Energy Agency, employment worldwide in the sector reached 12.7 million jobs last year, with China accounting for nearly half the total, despite the lingering effects of COVID-19 and the global energy crisis.
Nearly two-thirds of these jobs are in Asia, with China taking up 42 percent of the global figure, followed by the European Union and Brazil with 10 percent each, and the US and India with 7 percent each.
Last year, 5.4 million people were employed in the renewable energy sector in China, up from 4.7 million in 2020. Of these positions, solar photovoltaic claimed the largest share, with a workforce estimated at close to 2.7 million, up from 2.3 million in 2020.
China also accounted for 48 percent of the 1.4 million jobs in the global onshore and offshore wind market last year, even though the 47 gigawatts added to the sector was considerably less than the previous year. The nation was also the largest contributor to hydropower jobs, accounting for 37 percent of such employment globally, despite the pandemic delaying completion of some projects.
Liu Dechun, director of the Department of Resource Conservation and Environmental Protection at the National Development and Reform Commission, the country's top economic regulator, believes China can peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060 as planned, because it has made considerable progress in its green and low-carbon energy transformation during the past decade.
China's clean energy consumption accounted for 25.5 percent of total energy use last year, a rise of 11 percentage points from 2012. Its share of coal consumption stood at 56 percent last year, a fall of 12.5 percentage points from 2012, the department said.
The nation's installed capacity for generating wind and photovoltaic power rose by about 12-fold from 2012, and its new energy power generation output exceeded 1 trillion kilowatt-hours for the first time.
#253
The strike continued in TotalEnergies and ExxonMobil refineries, the General Confederation of Labour (CGT) said on Saturday, leading to fuel-related panics in the country.
According to the Ministry for Energy Transition, 20.7 percent of service stations were experiencing difficulties with at least one product on Saturday, compared to 19 percent on Friday.
The delegate of the CGT of ExxonMobile, Christopher Aubert, said that at least 70 percent of the company's workers were on strike on Saturday.
For his part, union leader Pedro Afonso said that all workers on strike were in the TotalEnergies refinery located in Feyzin near the city of Lyon on Saturday.
The strikers' actions led to a decrease in fuel deliveries, provoking fear among the French of fuel shortages as several Total service stations have been closed in the country.
Minister for Energy Transition Agnes Pannier-Runacher told the French media on Saturday that "the measures we have taken, including authorizing heavy goods vehicles refueling the stations to circulate the weekends, have made it possible to stabilize the situation at a national level."
On Friday, several French politicians, including President Emmanuel Macron, called for dialogue and responsibility between TotalEnergies strikers and the company.
The strike started on Sept. 27, forcing the company to temporarily shut down the country's largest refinery in the Normandy region on Sept. 28.
#254
As the United Arab Emirates' energy transition gathers pace before it hosts the United Nations climate conference next year, it is looking to climate partners such as China to help it sustain the momentum, its climate change special envoy says.
Sultan Al Jaber, the UAE special envoy for climate change and minister of industry and advanced technology, said the UAE is seeing "record growth in renewables", representing more than 80 percent of all new power-generating capacity last year.
However, he said, a transformative and pragmatic global energy transition is needed to deliver climate action, and while wind and solar accounted for the vast majority of all new power-generating capacity last year, this still only accounts for 4 percent of today's energy mix.
"As the world's energy needs grow ever larger, maintaining global energy security will require oil and gas to remain a significant part of the mix for decades to come," Al Jaber said.
A successful energy transition must make progress with economic and climate action in tandem, he said. As part of this, "we know we must do more now" to reduce the impact of oil and gas on the climate, and in the medium term the UAE plans to increase its renewables portfolio to 100 gigawatts by 2030.
"I see many more opportunities for collaboration with China as we continue to build and adapt to clean energy solutions. We are constantly looking to the future and have allocated more than $1.5 billion in grants and low-interest loans for renewable energy innovation in more than 40 countries."
Like China, Al Jaber said, the UAE is also investing in clean energy projects globally, with more than $50 billion across six continents, including in 27 climate-vulnerable island nations, which, he said, "is extremely important to us" and is one of the country's key approaches for COP 28 UAE next year.
In 2017, the UAE launched Energy Strategy 2050, which is considered the first unified energy strategy in the country that is based on supply and demand.
It aims to increase the contribution of clean energy in the total energy mix from 25 percent to 50 percent by 2050 and reduce carbon emissions from power generation by 70 percent.
It also seeks to raise the consumption efficiency of individuals and companies by 40 percent, the UAE government says.
Furthermore, the strategy targets an energy mix that combines renewables, nuclear and clean energy sources to meet the UAE's economic requirements and environmental goals, which are 44 percent clean energy, 38 percent gas, 12 percent clean coal and 6 percent nuclear.
The Australian aggregator Compare the Market's Green Fuel Index ranks the UAE first among countries whose use of renewable energy has increased. Its renewable capacity has grown almost 20,000 percent in the past 10 years.
The UAE, it said, "has traditionally relied on its plentiful supplies of oil" but has recently made a big effort to shift away from fossil fuels, although just 7.2 percent of the country's energy needs are met by renewable means.
Al Jaber praised China's focus on excellence in all aspects of the renewable energy supply chain, from research and development to materials, manufacturing and installation, which he said "sets the standard for other countries to follow".
"Solar, in particular, is an example of where the government has encouraged growth with supporting policies, resulting in China's leadership in both solar power generation and manufacturing. There is much to learn from this example."
China's leadership in technology "is also helping the world take advantage of the commercial opportunities of the energy transition", Al Jaber said, citing a consortium of Chinese companies that are partnering with the UAE to develop and build Al Dhafra Solar Park, 35 kilometers south of Abu Dhabi.
It will become one of the world's largest solar plants, delivering more than 2 GW of clean energy, Al Jaber said.
China "is leading the world with respect to solar, in both manufacturing and supply chains", he said.
The UAE, he said, has three of the world's largest single-site solar plants. The Noor Abu Dhabi Solar plant has 3.2 million solar panels and has been developed with expertise and investment from the Chinese clean technology company Jinko Power.
"As we prepare for COP 28 UAE, there are many lessons we can draw on from China's experience in practical, commercially viable clean tech development," Al Jaber said.
"We intend to take a similar, pragmatic approach that promotes an energy transition that is based on scientific, economic and engineering facts, appreciates the multiple dilemmas and challenging trade-offs, and accelerates the deployment of practical solutions."
COP 28 next year is the 28th session of the United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties. COP 27 will be held in Egypt in November
#255
Experts: Germany's supply hunt in Gulf should not put green push at risk
In the wake of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's energy-focused visit to the Gulf countries, experts say there is no need to decouple climate action from the current energy pressures as Europe's economic powerhouse tries to find a way out of a gas crisis.
They also said that important lessons from the energy crisis gripping Europe, fueled by sanctions over the Russia-Ukraine conflict, show the need for diversified energy sources, as well as partners. An effective energy agenda cannot be successful without reliable supplies of natural gas, they added.
Scholz, whose two-day trip to the Middle East ended on Sunday, became the latest Western leader to woo officials from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Qatar for energy supplies and cooperation in recent months.
Others include United States President Joe Biden, French President Emmanuel Macron, and Britain's Boris Johnson, before his prime ministership came to an end.
Germany, which is Europe's largest importer of Russian gas, has been tapping new sources of energy amid supply disruptions from Russia after the US and Europe imposed sanctions on Moscow over its conflict with Ukraine. It has also forced the region's biggest economy to reactivate some of its coal-fired power plants.
"It has to be clearly understood that war and sanctions have made sporadic contributions to the global energy prices' volatility, hence disturbing the prices of the basic commodities and services," said Henelito Sevilla Jr, a West Asia expert and dean and professor in the Asian Center at the University of the Philippines.
"Given the war and sanctions, and given also the geoeconomic reality of resource supply, European countries, including Germany, would have to temporarily, if not, permanently divert sources of their energy in order to sustain their economic operations, hence going as far as the Middle East to source these alternatives."
Aisha Al-Sarihi, a climate policy expert and research fellow at the Middle East Institute at the National University of Singapore, said that the energy crisis in Europe "sends mixed signals globally" regarding the urgency of the energy transition.
"Indeed, meeting the immediate energy needs and keeping households in Europe warm this coming winter should be a priority," Al-Sarihi said. "However, these emerging new energy agreements should not put the clean energy transition aside."
The scholar said Scholz's visit to the Gulf "should not decouple climate action while seeking new natural gas agreements with UAE, Saudi Arabia and Qatar".
During the chancellor's weekend visit, the UAE and Germany inked an agreement aimed at boosting energy security, decarbonization and combating climate change.
The agreement also covers Abu Dhabi National Oil Company, or Adnoc, supplying German energy company RWE with liquefied natural gas toward the end of the year.
In addition, Adnoc has reserved a number of other LNG cargoes for German companies in 2023, The National reported.
'Securing access'
"Securing access to these new capacities early by laying the ground for long-term contracts is key for Europe's energy security, especially now that European countries are competing with Asian buyers for these capacity additions," Yesar Al-Maleki, an energy expert and Gulf analyst at the Middle East Economic Survey, an energy publication in Cyprus, said.
"The bases for mutual benefit are clear and what the Ukraine crisis has made clearer to European policymakers is that any effective energy transition agenda cannot be successful without reliable supplies of natural gas."
Gokhan Ereli, Gulf Studies coordinator at the Center for Middle Eastern Studies in Turkiye, said that with the possibility of the Russia-Ukraine conflict stretching into next year, that scenario may see Germany's policy to diversify its energy partners move from a temporary necessity to a long-term policy choice.
Ereli said the most important lesson "for the entire Western world" is that the Russia-Ukraine conflict has revealed the necessity for diversity in energy, by type and partners, and that investments in renewables "will continue to intensify in all Western countries".
Al-Maleki said: "For the Gulf Cooperation Council, these capacities were years in planning anyway. They may have been impacted by a wave of underinvestment in recent years but now their economic feasibility and importance are even greater.
"If you look at the greater and longer-term picture, this might not be negative for the global energy transition agenda - quite the contrary."
#256
Amid world's green transition, experts highlight petrochemical production
With the rapid development of new energy vehicles and decreasing demand for petroleum products in China, refineries in the country should further evolve to make less gasoline and diesel but put more focus on petrochemical feedstocks, said analysts.
As the world's energy transition is soon to result in a peak in the use of oil-based fuels followed by a decline, lower overall demand and less need for refining capacity are expected and the refining capacity in China must evolve to match a shift in product mix to meet petrochemical demand, said Sun Lei, an analyst with Wood Mackenzie, a consultancy, during the 2022 Honeywell Sustainability Summit in Changsha, Hunan province, earlier this month.
With ever-growing sales of new energy vehicles and a possible transportation fuel consumption peak by 2026, there is already a surplus of capacity for gasoline and diesel. Refineries in the country are in need of a shift of their production focus from petroleum, which sees higher yields but lower profit rates and higher carbon emissions, to petrochemicals, to achieve growth in a more sustainable way, he said.
According to the Blue Book on the Development of China's Petroleum Circulation Industry 2021-2022, China saw its production of refined oil products reach 357 million metric tons in 2021 and total consumption of only 320 million tons, leaving a gap of 37 million tons.
Against the backdrop of the goals of reaching a carbon peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060, the country's refined oil products also witnessed a decline in exports, which makes the transition of China's refineries necessary and immediate, it said.
According to a report by Wood Mackenzie, gasoline will experience the greatest impact because it is primarily used for light-duty passenger vehicles and the market for these vehicles is shifting toward electric.
In contrast, demand for petrochemical feedstocks will continue to grow. The major oil-derived petrochemical feedstocks are ethane, liquid petroleum gas (LPG), and naphtha. These are primarily used in the production of polymers for plastics, synthetic fibers and other petrochemical intermediates. Demand for these products will continue to grow with rising global wealth, it said.
According to Jinn Wang, business director of Honeywell UOP, with an overall excess production capacity in the refining sector in China, refineries must update plant configuration to shift from transportation fuel production to more petrochemical production.
In the meantime, refineries must operate plants more efficiently and lower carbon emissions to improve competitiveness, he said.
Wang believes refineries in China will further lift their percentage of chemical products, with the average conversion rate of crude oil to petrochemical products to reach 20 percent to 40 percent by 2025 and 40 percent to 60 percent by 2030.
There is plenty of room for demand for chemicals in China, he said.
Some refineries in China are already looking for opportunities to adjust or modify their production models to capture the growing demand for petrochemicals.
China's recently commissioned Hengli Petrochemical refinery, for example, can generate more than 40 percent petrochemical feedstock yield compared with about 10 percent yield for most refineries. Hengli has the capacity for 4.3 million tons of paraxylene per year. Refineries near big markets will therefore have the strongest value proposition, said Wood Mackenzie.
Henry Liu, vice-president and general manager of Honeywell Performance Materials and Technologies Asia-Pacific, said while the refinery sector faces challenges in carbon reduction, it is also embracing massive opportunities from the industrial upgrading and green transition.
The key is to lift efficiency and reduce energy consumption, he said.
"Sustainability technology is pivotal to low-carbon transition and long-term growth for enterprises and a critical instrument for China to achieve its carbon reduction goals," Liu said.
"Honeywell has long been committed to advancing its own sustainable development while researching and promoting sustainability solutions in China."
#257
China has made remarkable progress in promoting the ambitious climate targets that it pledged two years ago to meet, with the essential establishment of a national climate policy system and significant growth in nonfossil energy development. 
While upholding multilateralism, the country has also seen its overseas investments and exports becoming greener, and efforts to help other developing economies with their climate actions have been embraced more broadly by global partners. 
Thursday marked the second anniversary of the announcement of China's climate targets of peaking carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality before 2060. 
President Xi Jinping made the announcement while addressing the 75th session of the United Nations General Assembly via video link. 
The president also called on all countries to seize the historic opportunities presented by the new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, and achieve a green recovery of the world economy.
The past two years have seen the intensive introduction of climate-related documents in China, which together constitute the country's top-level design, designated as the "1+N" policy system, for the targets. 
The "1" in the system indicates that it represents a master guideline issued by the Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council, China's Cabinet, as an overarching guide for the targets. The "N" stands for a series of specific action plans for different industrial sectors and supporting policies.
The system has been basically completed, said Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change, on Thursday at a symposium themed on the country's climate actions that also marked the 10th anniversary of the establishment of the National Center for Climate Change Strategy and International Cooperation.
Xie emphasized that as some developed countries have wavered in their climate policies, China has persisted in forging ahead with its climate targets and has hammered out the policy system. "This shows the stability and consistency of China's down-to-earth climate policies," he said. 
For example, as part of the policy system, the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration jointly released a guideline earlier this year on promoting a green, low-carbon energy transition. 
By 2030, China's nonfossil energy generation capacity is expected to be able to not only meet the growth in energy demand, but also replace the existing fossil energy generation capacity on a large scale, it said. 
As of the end of July, the total installed capacity of nonfossil energy in China had reached 1.19 billion kilowatts, accounting for 48.3 percent of the total, according to the China Electricity Council. 
At the end of 2020, the capacity stood at 930 million kW, accounting for 42.4 percent of the total. 
The number of new energy vehicles in China, for example, has reached over 10 million, which is more than half of the world's total, Xie said. In addition, the proportion of coal in the country's energy consumption mix had decreased from 65.8 percent in 2014 to 56 percent last year. 
"China has been on track on a green, low-carbon and sustainable development path that is suitable to our national conditions," Xie said.
Overseas investment
In 2020, for the first time, the country's overseas investments in developing solar, wind and hydro power energy accounted for the majority of its overseas energy investments - 57 percent, compared with 38 percent in 2019 - according to a 2021 report by the Central University of Finance and Economics' International Institute of Green Finance.
There have been positive signs that the country's overseas investments will be even greener after President Xi announced in September last year that China will step up support for other developing countries in the development of green and low-carbon energy and will not build new coal-fired power projects abroad. 
China experienced robust growth in the export of new energy power generation equipment and new energy vehicles last year, according to data from industrial associations. 
For example, the capacity of wind turbine generators that China exported in 2021 reached almost 3.3 million kilowatts, up 175.2 percent from 2020, China News Service quoted the Chinese Wind Energy Association as saying in a recent report. 
In addition, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said that exports of new energy vehicles increased almost 305 percent year-on-year to 310,000 in 2021. 
The country has also made consistent efforts to deepen South-South cooperation among developing nations on tackling climate change, said Huang Runqiu, minister of ecology and environment, at a recent news conference in Beijing.
With 43 cooperation agreements on climate change with developing countries, China had allocated 1.2 billion yuan ($170 million) as of the end of August for South-South cooperation on tackling the global crisis, he said. 
In one of the latest examples, China provided 5,000 sets of home solar systems and 25,000 energy-saving lights to Cuba in May to help the country with its efforts in coping with climate change. 
Addressing a high-level meeting on climate change at the headquarters of the United Nations in New York on Wednesday, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi emphasized that China will shoulder its due international responsibility in its green transition efforts. 
"Together with countries around the world, China is willing to roll out more pragmatic actions and support the core role of the United Nations to jointly safeguard the planet we call home and create an even more beautiful world for our future generations," he said.
#258
As the need for energy grows, oil and gas will continue to remain a significant part of oil-producing countries' energy mix so as to ensure global energy security, experts say.
Sultan Al Jaber, the United Arab Emirates' special envoy for climate change and minister of industry and advanced technology, said the UAE was seeing record growth in renewables.
But while wind and solar accounted for most of the new power generation capacity last year, he said this still only comprises 4 percent of today's energy mix.
"A successful energy transition must progress with economic and climate action in tandem. As part of this, we know we must do more now to reduce the impact of oil and gas on the climate," he said.
In its monthly oil market report published on Sept 13, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries reported that world oil demand growth in 2022 remained unchanged from the previous month's assessment "at a healthy level of 3.1 million barrels per day".
The report also said oil demand is forecast to remain driven by global economic growth, especially by the recovery in travel and transportation, which is projected to lead to robust overall growth in oil demand of 3.1 million barrels per day in 2022 and 2.7 million in 2023, surpassing pre-pandemic levels.
Aisha Al-Sarihi, research fellow in the Middle East Institute at the National University of Singapore, said one of the drivers behind developing renewable energy has been the need to keep up with growing domestic oil and gas demands, and to free up fuel needed for downstream economic diversification projects. "Given their high economic reliance on oil and gas export revenues, oil and gas exporters, including Kuwait, do not exclude oil and gas from their energy transition road map," she said.
Al-Sarihi also said oil and gas resources and the revenue gained from their exports "are currently irreplaceable" in helping to provide for basic needs and cushion the adverse impacts of climate change, including the growing need for cooling, water desalination and securing food supplies.
Exploring ways
Oil exporting countries such as the Arab states in the Gulf have been exploring ways and means to maintain the competitiveness of hydrocarbons in a climate-constrained world.
Al-Sarihi said to monetize the value of hydrocarbon resources as much as possible, Gulf countries have been advocating for and prioritizing technologies that do not restrict the production and export of hydrocarbons. These include carbon capture and storage and the production of hydrogen and green ammonia.
Al Jaber said the UAE remains a reliable supplier of some of the world's least carbon-intensive oil and gas, and that they are working to reduce its intensity by a further 25 percent before the end of the decade.
"We are proud to have the region's first industrial-scale carbon capture program, and all the electricity consumed by our national oil company now comes from zero-carbon nuclear and solar power," Al Jaber said.
#258
China is ramping up efforts on nuclear power station projects, with five projects-including two announced on Wednesday-powered by 10 nuclear reactors having been approved so far this year, a record number since 2011.
During a State Council executive meeting chaired by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang on Wednesday, two new nuclear power plants were approved to start construction, and are required to be constructed and operated in an "absolutely safe" manner.
The two projects include the second phase of the Zhangzhou nuclear power plant in East China's Fujian province and the first phase of the Lianjiang nuclear power plant in South China's Guangdong province, China Media Group said.
Analysts said the new approvals will further ensure the energy security of the country while playing a major role in helping China reach its green goals.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research firm BloombergNEF, said China's new nuclear project approvals will help ensure adequate power supply in the country while further boosting the local economy, given a large sum of new investments.
According to Jiemian.com, to approve and construct a nuclear reactor usually takes 56 months to 60 months and the investment for one nuclear reactor is estimated to be around 20 billion yuan ($2.87 billion), which means the total investment for 10 nuclear reactor units will reach 200 billion yuan.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said nuclear power, as non-fossil energy, has further illustrated its strategic importance in the country's energy mix and he believes China will continue to support nuclear energy as an integral part of its energy supply.
Nuclear energy has become a major non-fossil fuel option against the backdrop of a global energy shortage and it will also play a crucial role in ensuring the stability and consistency of a new power system dominated by new energy in the country, Luo said.
The Lianjiang nuclear power plant will be built by State Power Investment Corp and the Zhangzhou nuclear power plant will be built by China National Nuclear Corp.
The Zhangzhou nuclear power plant adopts Hualong One, a third-generation nuclear power technology with China's exclusive intellectual property rights. The first phase of the project includes two reactors, which were approved and began construction in 2019.
According to China's nuclear development report for this year released by the China Nuclear Energy Association on Wednesday, nuclear units in China have long been operating in a secure and stable manner.
Since 2021, five new nuclear power units have been put into operation, and construction of nine more has started. The Hualong One, China's third-generation nuclear power technology with full intellectual property rights and also one of the most widely accepted third-generation nuclear power reactors in the current global market, has also entered into mass construction, it said.
China currently operates a total of 53 nuclear reactors, with a total capacity of 55.6 million kilowatts. As many as 23 nuclear reactors are under construction with a total capacity of 24.19 million kW, which ranks tops in the world, it said.
China wants non-fossil fuels to account for 25 percent of total energy consumption by 2030, as it is going full throttle on its green energy transition to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.
The installed capacity of China's nuclear energy is expected to further expand and the power generated by nuclear plants will also be lifted during 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) period, according to the blueprint.
According to the plan on the country's energy system released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration, the government vows to step up the installed capacity for nuclear power plants in operation to 70 gigawatts by 2025, up from 51 GW at the end of 2020.
#259
Backed by global ties in various fields, conglomerate steps up expansion plan
China Energy Engineering Group Co Ltd vows to further expand its presence in the global clean energy market, especially in countries and regions participating in the Belt and Road Initiative, said its top official.
Seeing tremendous potential in the clean energy market for years to come, the company, one of the world's largest advanced energy engineering conglomerates, will accelerate investment in solar, wind and hydropower in economies participating in the BRI, said Song Hailiang, chairman of the company, also known as Energy China.
"The company has been strengthening technical cooperation with partners worldwide while actively exploring diversified cooperation methods, as we believe establishing a strong overseas presence is a key component in the company's business strategy to become a world-class clean energy group," Song said.
The company currently sees its business spread across more than 140 countries and regions, with a contract value signed with economies participating in the BRI exceeding 500 billion yuan ($71.8 billion) in the past five years, he said.
Energy China has seen its presence expanding on the global stage in the past few years with its high-quality projects, including the Nestor Kirchner-Jorge Cepernic hydropower plant in Argentina, the Tengger Reservoir 60-megawatt floating solar project in Singapore, the Sao Lourenco water supply project in Brazil and the Umm Al Quwain independent water project in the United Arab Emirates.
The Nestor Kirchner-Jorge Cepernic hydropower plant, the world's southernmost hydroelectric dam with a capacity of 1,310 MW, is expected to be put into commercial operation by the end of 2024. It will play a key role in promoting the local green energy transition and lift Argentina's installed power capacity by approximately 6.5 percent, Energy China said.
With a total contractual amount of more than $5 billion, the project, the largest cooperation agreement of a Chinese company in a Latin American country as well as the largest overseas electric power investment project by a Chinese company, is expected to increase Argentina's hydroelectric generation by 15 percent, it said.
According to Song, the core of sustainability lies in high-quality development, innovation and integration, with integration being of vital importance.
As China aims to promote large-scale use of energy storage technologies at lower costs to back up the world's biggest fleet of wind and solar power plants, Energy China has also been forging ahead in the energy storage sector in recent years with a layout of the whole industrial chain for energy storage, Song said.
It has recently devised a China Energy Storage Industry Innovation Alliance that includes 62 member companies from China-including Contemporary Amperex Technology Co Ltd, the world's largest battery maker for electric vehicles, and solar product manufacturer Trina Solar-to further boost the country's energy storage sector.
The setup of the alliance will further facilitate the country to seek breakthroughs in long-duration storage technologies such as compressed air, hydrogen and thermal energy, and aim for self-reliance in key fields, said Energy China.
To better boost renewable power consumption and ensure grid stability, China is putting a focus on new-type energy storage. It is targeting new-type energy storage with an installed capacity of 30 gigawatts by 2025, part of efforts to boost renewable power consumption and ensure grid stability, according to a statement by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration.
The country aims to cut the cost of electrochemical energy storage systems by 30 percent by 2025 and complete the commercialization of new-type energy storage systems by 2030, it said.
Li Jingru, vice-president of State Grid Economic and Technological Research Institute Co Ltd, agreed, saying energy storage will play a key role in ensuring the steady operation of the grid.
The potential of its flexible adjustment has not yet been played to its fullest, Li said.
#260
Nation's role in world's new power system highlighted by experts, insiders
China's advances in new energy development have won it the opportunity to lead the creation of international standards for new power systems, which will further accelerate the global transition to a low-carbon energy structure, experts said.
The new power system takes wind, solar, nuclear, biomass and other new energies as mainstays while fossil fuels will serve as supplements.
The comments came after the International Electrotechnical Commission recently proposed for China to lead in formulating the global standard framework of core technologies in the world's first new power system, and to accelerate low-carbon transition of the energy sector.
The commission said China has led the world in terms of new energy installed capacity and power generation for many years. The country's industry scale and market size of wind power, photovoltaics and lithium batteries have also ranked first in the world.
China's role in the research of the framework is key to the global energy transition, it said.
"With China's plan to scale up wind and solar power installations in the Gobi Desert and other arid areas, as well as the country's commitment to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and reach carbon neutrality by 2060, the country will see an increasing proportion of new energies used for power generation," said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University in Fujian province.
"Different from fossil fuels, new energy power generation poses higher requirements for the safe and stable operation of the power system because most new energies are intermittent resources, which experience rapid and random changes that make it hard for stable and steady power generation, causing volatility in voltage and frequency disturbances in grid operation. As a result, it is necessary to develop new power systems to meet growing demand buoyed by increasing new energy installations," Lin said.
The China Electricity Council said by the end of July, total installed capacity of non-fossil energy was 1.19 billion kilowatts, up 14.7 percent year-on-year, accounting for 48.3 percent of the total.
Orient Securities said with extreme weather posing bigger challenges, expanding new energy in power generation and continuous changes in the power consumption, construction of new power systems will be imminent and the industry reform is likely to accelerate in the second half.
The establishment of new power systems will spur demand for smart power networks, virtual power plants and power trade, and boost investment in these sectors, it said.
Recently, the State Grid Corp's Zhejiang branch cooperated with the local financial department and co-launched a project that grants smart grid developers easier access to loan products.
Zhejiang Daily said an estimated 20 billion yuan ($2.89 billion) has been arranged to this end, and related application procedures have been facilitated.
Li Gengfeng, a professor at Xi'an Jiaotong University, told China Energy News that China's first regional new power system will come soon and the industry is likely to see an accelerated pace of reform in the second half.
New energies will replace fossil fuels and become the major source of power generation in northwestern areas in 2022 thanks to the nation's efforts in the areas. State Grid's northwest branch will boast a power network that has the largest new energy installations, playing a major role in building the nation's first new power system, Li said.
Lin from Xiamen University said wind power and photovoltaic energy will take up the largest part of the new power system. Other major parts of the system include electric vehicles, power storage, hydropower, smart grid, and carbon capture and storage (CCS).
Lin said EVs will ultimately replace those powered by gasoline. The promotion of the smart grid and power storage will help mitigate the fluctuations in new energy power generation and transmission, and CCS will help ensure the goal of carbon neutrality as the new power systems require a certain proportion of fossil fuels that will produce emissions.
"China's new energy development is on a fast track. With more support from the government and the capital market in the pipeline, China is very likely to maintain its lead in new energy development."
#261
China's advancement in new energy development has won the opportunity to lead the creation of the international standard for new power systems, which will further accelerate the global transition to a low-carbon energy structure, experts said.
The remarks came after the International Electrotechnical Commission recently proposed that China leads the creation for the framework of global standards of core technologies in the world's first new power system in a bid to accelerate the low-carbon transition of the energy sector.
The new power system, different from China's current power system that uses coal as the main source to generate electricity, is a system that takes wind, solar, nuclear, biomass, and other new energies as the mainstay while using many others as supplements.
According to the commission, China has led the world in terms of new energy installed capacity and power generation for many years. The country's industry scale and market size of wind power, photovoltaics, and lithium batteries have also ranked first in the world.
The commission said China's leading role in the research of the framework will help the global energy transition.
"Different from fossil fuels, new energy power generators pose higher requirements for the safe and stable operation of the power system because most new energies are intermittent resources, which have rapid and random changes that make it hard for stable and steady power generation, and also cause volatility in voltage and frequency disturbances in grid operation. As a result, it is necessary to develop new power systems to meet the growing demand buoyed by increasing new energy installations," said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University in Fujian province.
"With more support from the government and the capital market in the pipeline, China is very likely to lead the world in new energy development and is qualified to lead the establishment of the framework of global standards for the international new power system," Lin said.
Data from the China Electricity Council showed that as of the end of July, the total installed capacity of non-fossil energy power generators was 1.19 billion kilowatts, a year-on-year increase of 14.7 percent, accounting for 48.3 percent of the total. The proportion has an increase of 2.8 percentage points year-on-year.
"Moreover, China's industrial chain in the new energy sector is the most competitive in the global market. Its new energy equipment can go overseas to support a global low carbon transition, if there's no barrier in international trades," he said. 
#262
Joint efforts 'urgently needed' as world faces increasingly severe repercussions
Collaboration and multilateralism will be key to addressing climate change and environmental challenges confronting the world today, said top Chinese officials and foreign diplomats on Wednesday.
With humanity facing the increasingly severe impact of climate change, joint efforts among the international community are urgently needed, said Liu Qibao, vice-chairman of the 13th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
"As a developing country, China has actively pushed for the signing of the Paris Agreement on climate change, and consistently followed through on its commitments," Liu said.
"China, Europe and Africa share a lot of consensus on climate change and green development. The three parties should deepen exchanges and cooperation on green economy and clean energy, and jointly pursue green, low-carbon and sustainable development."
Liu made the remarks at the China-Europe-Africa Green Energy Development Forum, held on Sept 7 and 8 in Hangzhou, capital of East China's Zhejiang province, as China prepares to attend the 2022 United Nations Climate Change Conference, or COP27, in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt from Nov 6 to 18.
The forum, organized by the China-EU Association, seeks to promote high-quality development in the era of carbon neutrality, and build a China-Europe-Africa green energy development community in response to the myriad challenges posed by climate change.
Various studies show that the number of extreme weather events has grown significantly as a result of climate change. In a 2021 report, the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said that global surface temperatures have increased faster since 1970 than in any other 50-year period over the past 2,000 years, leading to growing extreme heat waves, droughts and flooding.
In 2022, unprecedented heat waves have caused severe droughts in China, the United States, Europe and other parts of the world. Lack of rainfall in the Horn of Africa has put over 22 million people at the risk of starvation, according to the UN's World Food Programme. More recently, deadly floods have ravaged Pakistan, killing more than 1,300 people and leaving thousands homeless.
"In the face of global challenges and crises, no country can stay alone. Multilateralism and win-win cooperation are the only options," Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change, said via video link at the forum, echoing Liu's call for the international community to join hands.
"China, the EU and African countries share common ground on the implementation of the Paris Agreement and taking forceful actions," Xie added.
China has been making persistent efforts to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. In September 2020, China pledged to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. Official figures show that by 2021, China's energy consumption per unit of GDP had dropped by 26.2 percent compared with 2012, equivalent to a reduction of 2.94 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions.
"We need friendly emerging economies like China to partner with South Africa and other African countries in mitigating the impact of our energy transition," said Siyabonga Cwele, South African ambassador to China, who believed China can offer a lot for Africa's green transition in terms of funding, innovative technologies, skills training and management, among other areas.
"If you want to go fast, go alone; if you want to go far, go together," said Nan Cunhui, chairman of the Chint Group, a leading new energy company with a global presence based in Zhejiang, quoting an African proverb at the forum to illustrate the benefits of cooperation.
In the process, policy support such as easier market access and tax incentives will be needed, Nan said, "to encourage more companies to invest in the green energy industry".
Last year, China and Africa issued the Declaration on China-Africa Cooperation on Combating Climate Change, including the launch of a three-year action plan and the further development of green energy, to tackle climate change.
#263
China and the European Union have massive opportunities for cooperation on green development in wide-ranging areas, including carbon neutrality, environmental governance, energy transition and green technology innovation, said speakers at a Sino-EU forum on Wednesday.
Jointly hosted by the China Europe International Business School and the EU-China Business Association, the 8th Europe Forum took place simultaneously in Brussels and Shanghai, and focused on the theme China-Europe Cooperation on Decarbonization.
Both China and the EU cherish the same goals of making a green transition toward the future and growing close bilateral economic relations, speakers said.
"China and the EU share a mutual target of making the transformation to a green future, which has bright prospects for bilateral collaboration," said Wang Hongjian, a senior diplomat in the Chinese Mission to the EU, in his speech in Brussels.
The High-level Environment and Climate Dialogue between China and the EU has been held three times, and this platform should be used by both parties to lead the multilevel green cooperation, he said.
Wang Hong, president and professor of management with the CEIBS, said China and Europe are important economic and trade partners and major economies-and their carbon neutrality targets present massive room for cooperation and promotion of mutual interests.
Both China and the EU have huge budgets for achieving their carbon neutrality goals. "China is committed to peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060. In recent years, China has made huge strides toward the carbon neutrality goal, and it is estimated that the country's investment in low-carbon development will be more than 100 trillion yuan ($14.37 trillion) in the next 30 years," she said.
The Next Generation EU, a historic stimulus package for 2021-27, worth 1.8 trillion euros ($1.79 trillion) in 2018, would set aside at least 37 percent of the recovery fund for green transition, Wang Hong said.
Jochum Haakma, chairman of the EU-China Business Association, said China has overtaken the US to become the EU's biggest trading partner in 2020, and bilateral trade and collaboration have not seen any major setback due to COVID-19.
Despite the contagion, the value of trade between China and the EU reached 588 billion euros in 2020, and exceeded 600 billion euros in 2021, showing strong bilateral trade demand, said Haakma.
Investment has grown as well. Direct investment from China in the EU rose from 6.5 billion euros in 2020 to 9 billion euros in 2021. Most of the Chinese investment has been made in sectors like energy, infrastructure, consumer products and autos, which also contributed to the EU's low-carbon sector development, Haakma said.
With mutual goals of promoting green development and playing a bigger role in climate change, the EU and China need each other as both sides are major trade partners and can combat climate change together, said Gwenn Sonck, executive director of the EU-China Business Association and the Flanders-China Chamber of Commerce.
According to Sonck, European enterprises in China have already taken cooperative action, as a report by the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China revealed in May.
The report found that 67 percent of European companies operating in China are already pursuing carbon neutrality, and 40 percent have established China-focused decarbonization teams.
#264
Singapore and the Philippines are keen to develop nuclear energy in line with their plans to decarbonize their economies.
Apart from their climate commitments, the two are boosting their renewable energy resources to promote energy security.
A report commissioned by Singapore's Energy Market Authority said geothermal energy or nuclear energy can supply about 10 percent of the city-state's energy needs by 2050.
Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos said in a State of the Nation Address that it is time for the country to "reexamine our strategy" on building nuclear power plants.
Analysts said advances in nuclear technology in recent years will avert nuclear disasters like those that happened at Chernobyl, Ukraine, in 1986 and Fukushima, Japan, in 2011.
"If Singapore can identify a technology that is sufficiently safe, nuclear power could provide a small percentage of the country's low-carbon electricity," said Philip Andrews-Speed, senior principal fellow at the Energy Studies Institute, National University of Singapore.
Using nuclear energy can address both "low-carbon and security of supply challenges", he said.
Kavickumar Muruganathan, a teaching faculty member at the university, said that while large nuclear plant plants will be unsuitable given Singapore's land scarcity and highly urbanized terrain, small modular reactors can help the country produce nuclear energy.
A small modular reactor can generate about 300 megawatts of electricity that can power 50,000 homes a year, he said. Its size means it can be located closer to residential areas or inserted within pockets of spaces in industrial areas. Such reactors can also be designed and built faster for commercial scalability.
Research on nuclear technology and safety has advanced significantly in recent years, Muruganathan said.
"Mechanisms must be in place to detect any leakage into the wider environment, and there should be guidelines to collect, transport and dispose of radioactive waste material in a safe manner."
Apart from nuclear energy, Singapore can also develop geothermal energy, said Alessandro Romanogli, associate professor at the School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Nanyang Technological University in Singapore.
"The key advantage of geothermal energy over other renewables is its availability almost all year round."
Studies of Singapore's geothermal potential are continuing, but "an initial theoretical estimate indicates that the potential could cover a sizable portion of Singapore's energy mix", he said.
Marcos said plans to develop nuclear energy in his country will comply with regulations set by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
The Philippines was keen to explore the use of atomic energy when it built the Bataan Nuclear Power Plant, which was completed in 1984 but was never used owing to safety concerns.
Gerardo Erguiza Jr, undersecretary of the Philippine Department of Energy, said in May that a study of the Korean Hydro Nuclear Power Company of South Korea and Rosatom of Russia showed that it is possible for the Philippines to rehabilitate the Bataan plant.
Alberto Dalusung III, energy transition adviser of the Institute for Climate and Sustainable Cities, a think tank in Manila, said there are still several concerns that need to be addressed before the Philippines can restart its plan to use nuclear energy. These include safety and cost concerns and whether nuclear energy is the appropriate renewable energy source for the Philippines.
#265
Hong Kong is striving to develop renewable energy sources to reduce its carbon footprint, with hydrogen poised to play a significant role in combating climate change and creating a clean, green economy. 
Electricity generation is the largest contributor to carbon emissions in Hong Kong, accounting for 66 percent of the total carbon emissions in 2019, according to the city's Climate Action Plan 2050.
The special administrative region has been relying on imported fuel for generating power, or electricity imported from the Chinese mainland, to meet its electricity demand. With various initiatives to drive the development of renewable energy, Hong Kong's fuel mix for electricity generation has changed.
In 2015, coal accounted for 48 percent of electricity generation, but the ratio dropped to 24 percent in 2020. In the same period, the ratio of natural gas in the fuel mix ballooned from 27 percent to 48 percent. Nuclear and renewable energy's contribution had also risen, although slightly - from 25 percent to 28 percent - between 2015 and 2020, according to the Climate Action Plan 2050.
The HKSAR government expects renewable energy's share in the fuel mix for generating power to increase from less than 1 percent at present to between 7.5 percent and 10 percent by 2035, and jump to 15 percent subsequently.
Zero-carbon energy, or renewable energy, refers to energy sources that generate little or no carbon emissions during their production or use. Such sources can be solar, wind or hydrogen.
Hong Kong is developing renewable energy sources on all fronts. The government will strive to develop more advanced waste-to-energy facilities to generate electricity. It is also reviewing proposals with the city's two power companies to develop offshore wind farms, and has encouraged the community to develop solar energy.
Waste accounted for 7 percent of the city's total carbon emissions in 2019, according to Climate Action Plan 2050. Developing waste-to-energy facilities and promoting waste reduction recycling will mean shifting away from reliance on landfills for municipal waste disposal that leads to a high carbon footprint.
Hong Kong's drive to develop large-scale renewable energy still faces constraints due to geographical factors, scarce land resources, and densely populated areas.
Among the zero-carbon energy sources, hydrogen is set to play a more significant role in efforts to combat climate change.
Hydrogen is a versatile, nontoxic and lightweight gas that can be stored, transported and converted into clean power. More importantly, it has the potential to decarbonize a wide range of sectors. A clean-green economy can be developed when hydrogen can feed into a range of applications, such as chemicals, transport, buildings or manufacturing, if produced on a large scale.
Grey hydrogen (not carbon-free), which is the most common form, is generated via carbon-intensive methods, using a natural gas or coal feedstock; while green hydrogen (carbon-free) is produced from sustainable power sources via methods such as electrolysis - a chemical reaction that breaks water down into its constituent parts, hydrogen and oxygen. Renewable power sources, such as solar or wind, can be applied to generate green hydrogen.
The Hydrogen Council - an international advisory body to foster long-term clean energy transition - expects global hydrogen demand to reach 546 million metric tons by 2050, up from the current 70 million metric tons, with a 6.4-percent annual growth rate.
Viable alternative
Among various business sectors, hydrogen offers a viable alternative to battery-powered electric vehicles. The power sources being used in Hong Kong transport vehicles are still heavily reliant on gasoline, diesel and electricity.
Under Climate Action Plan 2050, the SAR government pledged to cut total carbon emissions by 26 percent to 36 percent by 2030 when set against the 2005 baseline. In 2020, carbon emissions were about 20 percent lower than those in 2005.
Lawrence Cheung Chi-chong, chief innovation officer at the Hong Kong Productivity Council, says Hong Kong should think more about how to develop the application of hydrogen fuel cells in public transport when hydrogen fuel cell technology can cut greenhouse gas emissions as the technology emits only water. "There is potential for public transport vehicles, such as buses and taxis, to adopt the hydrogen-enabled mode, while private cars and commercial vehicles like trucks and vans are more likely to adopt the battery-powered model," he says.
For battery-powered electric commercial vehicles, like buses and taxis, the charging time is usually around midnight when their daily operations end, and charging facilities are needed provided there is adequate land, Cheung explains. "For Hong Kong's estimated 7,000 franchised public buses and 18,000 taxis in service, it is not viable and sustainable to find adequate space and facilities that can provide electric charging for these vehicles overnight."
Unlike the charging of electric-vehicle batteries that takes more time, the hydrogen refilling process can be completed in a few minutes. Most of the liquefied petroleum gas refilling stations can be upgraded into hydrogen refilling stations easily.
As the time for using private cars and commercial vehicles is not standardized, it is easier for owners of these vehicles to use electric charging, says Cheung, while the time for refilling hydrogen for buses and taxis is similar to that for refilling gasoline-powered buses and taxis.
Bravo Transport Holdings, owner of Hong Kong's bus operators Citybus and New World First Bus, launched Hong Kong's first hydrogen fuel cell double-decker bus in July - two months after it introduced the city's first electric double-decker bus service. While the bus is Hong Kong's first-ever hydrogen fuel cell vehicle, it is also the world's first tri-axle hydrogen fuel cell double-decker bus.

The bus will enter service after it has passed the inspection and testing processes and the relevant laws and regulations are updated. The vehicle is equipped with the fuel cell that converts hydrogen into electricity to power the bus and its entire system. It is able to cope with the local operating environment, including high passenger loads, steep road gradients, long service time and operating mileage, as well as constituent use of air-conditioning systems.
"The business value chain generated by the adoption of hydrogen energy in green transport will involve research and development, production, transportation, storage, refilling and electricity generation. It will also involve different expertise that will create more types of jobs," says Steven Chan Nai-kin, president of the Hong Kong Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association.
Hydrogen-fueled cars require maintenance and repairs that differ from those of electric battery-run cars. They require expertise in electrical, power and chemical engineering as hydrogen-filling stations need the expertise for protecting the storage tank and power transmission of hydrogen to prevent leakages.
But the SAR government is rather passive in encouraging hydrogen to be used as another energy source, says Chan. "The government is dragging its feet and waiting for breakthroughs in hydrogen generation technology. It does not proactively deal with issues associated with transportation and the storage of hydrogen energy."
Collaboration, supports needed
Cheung notes that Hong Kong has little expertise in hydrogen fuel cars. Thus, the city should cooperate with mainland automakers in producing hydrogen fuel cell cars. "Mainland automakers have manufacturing plants in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. Hong Kong can contribute to and support research and development so that mainland automakers can leverage their production capabilities to produce hydrogen fuel cell cars that are suitable for use in Hong Kong," he says.
"The HKPC can provide technical consultancy services to industrialists to choose potential partners in developing hydrogen fuel cell cars. If industry stakeholders need the technology to be localized to suit Hong Kong's specific conditions, we can link up startups and product suppliers in Hong Kong," Cheung adds.
"Led by Foshan, a fuel cell vehicle demonstration city cluster has been established in Guangdong province. Hong Kong should learn from Guangdong's experience in developing the hydrogen energy industry and strengthen cooperation with industry leaders in the Greater Bay Area so as to get support in hydrogen energy supply, equipment and vehicle manufacturing," says Yang Dong, CEO of Hong Kong-based Hans Energy Co, which is transforming its business to building a hydrogen energy supply chain in Hong Kong.
Derek Man Lee-yeung, honorary treasurer of the Hong Kong Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association, says the SAR government, private enterprises and industry players should jointly promote the hydrogen economy. But, as private companies' main goal is to make profits, they may not take the initiative to push for research and development of hydrogen energy, he says, adding that industry players may have the expertise to accelerate R&D development, but lack financial resources.
Man urges the SAR government to take a leading role in the field. By providing funding, the administration can work with large private companies in conducting R&D in hydrogen energy and creating hydrogen-related technology prototype products. More financial incentives would speed up the technology commercialization process.
"The government can also issue guidelines to educate stakeholders on how to apply, transport and store hydrogen safely. It should also consider hydrogen transportation and storage in future town planning," he says.
Apart from financial and policy supports, the government should consider setting up a task force with its own testing laboratories for conducting R&D on hydrogen energy. By recruiting industry players, academics and government engineers, these laboratories can help expedite the development of hydrogen energy, says Man.
Yang wants the government to introduce standards and regulations for hydrogen energy as soon as possible. "Greater efforts should be made to eliminate public concerns about the safety of hydrogen energy and help the public understand the significance of hydrogen energy in environmental protection; policies concerning hydrogen fuel vehicles and infrastructure construction should be enhanced; and financial support should be provided," he says.
According to Yang, the SAR should introduce international advanced technologies, concepts and standards to build a world-class hydrogen energy supply chain that is "made in Hong Kong". Another plan is for the government to consider using power generated by its "waste-to-energy" projects to electrolyze water to produce hydrogen for solving the problem of waste disposal, as well as other matters involving hydrogen supply in Hong Kong.
The "bus-plus-property development" model can also be considered to propel the development of hydrogen-fuelled public transport in Hong Kong, Yang suggests. If the government can grant bus companies property development rights, like the MTR Corporation enjoys, bus companies can then use part of the profits from real-estate development to buy hydrogen-fuel buses, build related infrastructure and subsidize operations, he says.
#266
Green hydrogen production capacity in a North China city will be equal to 5 percent of the European Union's target for consumption in eight years, thus illustrating the Chinese government's strong determination to realize the green energy transition, said a report released recently.
Green hydrogen production capacity in Ordos, a city in China's coal-intensive Inner Mongolia autonomous region, will be enough to meet the 2030 EU consumption target, said strategic research provider BloombergNEF.
Ordos, which has some of the richest coal reserves nationwide-together with Shanxi and Shaanxi provinces-plans to produce 1 million metric tons of green hydrogen per year by the end of the decade.
The city announced its goal as part of a hydrogen plan released on June 21. The initial aim is to produce 400,000 tons of green hydrogen by 2025 and then continue to ramp up output till 2030.
Of the 1-million-ton target, 70 percent will be used for methanol and ammonia production. BloombergNEF estimates that if all methanol production in Ordos was made using green hydrogen as a feedstock, corresponding green hydrogen demand would reach 2 million tons per year, twice Ordos' total 2030 target.
Four companies-Ningxia Baofeng Energy Group, Shengyuan Group, China Petrochemical Corp and China Coal Energy Co-are set to play an outsized role in Ordos' green hydrogen production. Together, they will account for 65 percent of green hydrogen capacity commissioned in the city by 2025, it said.
An analyst said green hydrogen will play an important role in interconnecting renewable energy and decarbonization within industrial systems.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said the green hydrogen industry will see costs further reduced, thanks to technological advances in the country.
However, China's production, supply, storage and sales of green hydrogen are still in the initial stages, and the nation needs to accumulate more experience for future large-scale development, Luo said.
Ordos' plan would be a boost for domestic electrolyzer manufacturers as the newly announced green hydrogen projects in the city could potentially alleviate some electrolyzer overcapacity, said Wei Hanyang, an analyst with BloombergNEF.
BloombergNEF estimates that Ordos alone could drive 4.3 gigawatts of electrolyzer shipments in China.
#267
Chinese investments in renewable energy in Africa are bringing hope to a continent where power shortages are common, with the green-themed projects also winning kudos for helping to tackle climate change.
From the Sakai photovoltaic power station in the Central African Republic and the Garissa solar plant in Kenya to the Aysha wind farm in Ethiopia and Zambia's Kafue Gorge hydroelectric station, China has implemented hundreds of clean-energy projects in sub-Saharan Africa.
The projects are seen as crucial at a time when the effects of climate change are causing increasing concern across the globe-including the heat waves that have hit parts of North Africa and a drought devastating communities across the Horn of Africa.
In addition to increased energy supplies and green dividends, the Chinese-backed projects are creating jobs, with skills transfer through training programs also taking place.
Infrastructure improved
Liu Yichao, the business manager for China Jiangxi International Kenya, said the company has always been committed to improving the level of infrastructure and people's well-being in Africa in many fields, including renewable energy. In his role, Liu is in charge of several projects across East Africa.
"We operate in different construction sectors and we have implemented projects in Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda and Tanzania in the East African region," Liu said. "Even though we are a construction company and have built infrastructure like bridges and hospitals in Africa, we also participate in setting up renewable energy facilities like hydroelectric dams and solar power stations.
"One of our latest projects is the Koru-Soin multipurpose dam in western Kenya. The objective is to build a comprehensive water conservancy project integrating flood control, water supply and irrigation functions."
In May, the company, as the general contractor, signed the contract for the project with Kenya's National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority.
Costing more than $190 million, the dam will have a storage capacity of 93.7 million cubic meters. It will provide 72 million liters of water a day for domestic use, irrigate 2,570 hectares and generate 2.5 megawatts of hydropower to be added to the national grid.
The Chinese company is also building the Mwache multipurpose dam in the Kenyan coastal county of Kwale.
The Garissa solar plant stands as another example of Sino-African cooperation. The 54.6 MW plant in eastern Kenya is the largest grid-connected solar power plant in East and Central Africa. The plant was also built by China Jiangxi.
James Mureithi, the lead engineer at Kenya's Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Corp, said the solar farm was built with an investment of $135.7 million and was funded by the Export-Import Bank of China. It occupies 85 hectares and consists of 206,272 solar panels.
"Generation of power at the solar farm commenced in November 2018," Mureithi said. "Going by our reports as of March 2021, a total of 215,918 megawatt-hours was generated and exported to the national grid at an average daily generation of 247 megawatt-hours.
"Currently, this project is contributing about 2 percent of the national energy mix and has led to a significant reduction in energy costs in the country while promoting the development of clean, reliable, sustainable and affordable electricity."
More investment
Simon Gicharu, chairman of the Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Corp's board of directors, said 147 new solar power plants are envisioned across Kenya, following the success of the Garissa plant. The project will target, in addition to Garissa, solar-intensive places such as Mandera, Lamu, Wajir, Tana River and Turkana.
"The Kenyan government will not rest on its laurels because the short-term results produced by the largest solar power plant in East Africa at Garissa are encouraging," Gicharu said. "The power plant has proved to be an exemplary project, with many environmental benefits. That is why we will now invest more in solar power projects."
Liu said that his company's policy is to share knowledge and expertise on green energy with local technicians. When the company finished building the Garissa solar station, they handed it over to the Kenyan government after ensuring that it was up and running and well staffed.
"Since the plant started operations, we continue to work with the client, who in this case is Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Corp, by sending over technicians when needed," Liu said.
Other notable green energy projects undertaken in Africa by Chinese companies include the De Aar wind farm in South Africa. The project was led by China's Longyuan Power through its South African subsidiary, Longyuan South Africa Renewables. The installed capacity of the project's 163 wind turbines is 244.5 MW.
In Zambia, Sinohydro Corp is building the Kafue Gorge hydropower station at a cost of $2 billion. The project, which is financed by Export-Import Bank of China and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, is expected to have installed capacity of 750 MW once fully operational.
Despite increased investment in Africa's green energy with the acceleration of Chinese investment, experts said that African governments must demonstrate their determination for a clean energy transition through policies and incentives.
In a report titled "China's Investments in Renewable Energy in Africa" published last year by the United Nations Environment Programme, experts said governments should open up the generation, distribution and transmission sectors to private players. A shortage of capital to finance such projects, along with the lack of a conducive environment for private companies, is among the challenges facing the continent, the report said.
#268
As the race to achieve net-zero carbon emissions is redefining the world's energy outlay, the city of Ordos in North China's Inner Mongolia autonomous region aims to grab a piece of the pie through energy transition.
With proven coal reserves of the Ordos Plateau standing at 210.2 billion metric tons, accounting for approximately one-sixth of the country's coal supply, Ordos has consistently been an important energy supply base in the country over the past few decades.
However, success has come at a cost-high carbon emissions. But Ordos, the country's main coal-producing region, is also blessed with abundant wind and solar resources, so it is focusing on how to make the transition.
The city came up with the world's first net-zero industrial park last year in partnership with green technology company Envision Group, with plans to support local renewable energy equipment, electrical vehicle manufacturing and battery industry clusters.
In the future, 80 percent of the energy in the entire park will be directly supplied by local wind power and photovoltaics, Envision said.
In order to complete the objective of replacing 5,000 heavy-duty trucks within the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25), Ordos will also build supporting green power projects with an estimated annual power generation capacity of 15 billion kilowatts, it added.
Envision Group said it will cooperate with major automakers in Ordos to replace the city's 330,000 diesel trucks used for coal transportation with electric versions, leading to a reduction of 30 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions and cutting operating costs by 30 billion yuan ($4.35 billion).
It will broaden the use of new energy vehicles in carrying out environmental sanitation, logistics, public transportation and other work, it said.
An analyst said renewable energy resources are the trump card for transition in the city and will, in turn, further promote the use of cleaner energy in renewable energy-rich regions nationwide.
Following China's stated carbon peak and neutrality goals, it is necessary for the resource-rich city to upgrade local energy consumption. If high energy-consuming industries are able to trade coal for renewable resources, it will open up new vistas for economic growth, said Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research firm BloombergNEF.
"Ordos is a leading urban economy in Inner Mongolia with ample reserves of coal, used for thermal power, chemical and metallurgical purposes. Gas reserves have also been found in the area, and it enjoys massive land potential for renewable energy use. In the past decade, Ordos has introduced energy-intensive companies to turn its resource reserves into higher value-added assets, while addressing pollution challenges," Wei said.
Caixin Media said total reserves of wind energy with development potential in Ordos stand at more than 50 million kW, and if the city's arid areas can be fully utilized to build grid-connected solar photovoltaic power stations, installed PV capacity will be able to reach more than 60 million kW.
In recent years, Ordos has accelerated the development of a whole new energy industry chain. By the end of the 14th Five-Year Plan, installed capacity of new energy will reach 50 million kW, accounting for more than 50 percent of total installed power capacity, said local authorities.
Li Li, Party secretary of Ordos, said the city has driven the transformation of its economic structure through energy structure adjustments in recent years. It has vigorously cultivated new energy equipment manufacturing industry clusters and established a carbon-neutral research institute with colleges and universities to further facilitate the transition.
Hua Ruifeng, a member of the Standing Committee of the CPC Ordos Municipal Committee, said the government will continue increasing the proportion of its green power supply, accelerate the construction of long-term energy storage systems and create more zero-carbon products in the future.
#269
North China-based facility to provide clean power to nearby enterprises

In Ordos, Inner Mongolia autonomous region, the world's first net-zero industrial park powered by the latest wind, solar and hydrogen power technologies, has been gradually taking shape, helping initiate a new industrial transition in the country and across the world.
The industrial park, built by major domestic green technology business Envision Group, will use 100 percent renewable energy, including solar, wind power and energy storage, for production and operation activity by high energy-consuming industries. This will not only play a key role in helping China realize its carbon peak and carbon neutrality goals but also lead the world's net-zero industrial transition, said Zhang Lei, CEO of Envision, during a recent Ordos net-zero industry summit.
Envision said excess power produced in the park will be sold to the grid, and stored green energy will be retrieved from the grid when needed, so as to ensure 100 percent net-zero energy, safe and stable supplies, and reduced costs.
After more than one year's development since the net-zero industrial park was launched last year, the project currently houses a wind power plant as well as battery and hydrogen energy production, with an estimated annual output value of 100 billion yuan ($14.5 billion), the company added.
The industrial park has attracted numerous upstream and downstream powerhouses in the green energy industry chain so far, including LONGi Green Energy Technology, Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt and Shanghai Hydrogen Propulsion Technology Co.
Green hydrogen will also be playing an important role in interconnecting renewable energy and decarbonization of industrial systems within the industrial park, the production of which will be applied to downstream industries to further reduce coal consumption in Ordos.
Ordos is rich in coal reserves. Latest data show that proven coal reserves of the Ordos Plateau stand at 210.2 billion metric tons, accounting for approximately one-sixth of the country's supply, and proven natural gas reserves stand at nearly 5 trillion cubic meters, accounting for one-third, according to local authorities.
In the past few decades, a large number of high-energy-consuming projects have been built in the region, including coal power, coal chemical industry, iron and steel, electrolytic aluminum and big data centers, resulting in an increase in carbon emissions.
The integration of green energy, transportation and the chemical industry will help drive the vigorous development of the net-zero industrial park in Ordos, helping the region-which has unique regional advantages due to its rich and affordable renewable energy resources-further tap its potential, said Envision.
The Energy Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Macroeconomic Research said regions with rich and low-cost renewable energy, including the southwest and the three northeastern regions, will attract more industries, with rising demand to achieve extensive carbon emissions reduction.
The Rocky Mountain Institute agreed, saying that compared with transporting energy to regions where industries are located, attracting industries to regions with rich and cheap clean energy is a model with great potential for replication.
Li Ting, managing director and chief representative of the Rocky Mountain Institute's Beijing office, said industrial parks are the best places for industrial upgrading and technological model innovation, and play a pivotal role in China's energy transition and dual carbon strategy.
"In the future, we will see more parks practicing energy transition through innovation and implementable models. Among them, the availability of renewable energy will be the starting point of innovation, as renewables will become the main driving force to promote industrial upgrading and the evolution of industrial development patterns," Li said.
"High energy consuming enterprises and parks will be located adjacent to areas with rich solar and wind resources, maximizing the use of green power, and facilitating the innovation of green power procurement applications. The transformation of the chemical industry based on green hydrogen will be mainly driven by renewable energy, and Northwest China will become the largest market for the chemical industry and green hydrogen, as well as the center of the chemical industry transformation," she added.
The development of green hydrogen-based steelmaking will break the current pattern of the steel industry, which is "strong in the east and weak in the west".
Enterprises will pay more heed to regions with abundant renewable hydrogen resources when selecting sites for hydrogen-based steelmaking projects, Li said.
However, one of the major challenges faced by renewable energy is its fluctuation, as the sun is not always shining and the wind not always blowing.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said renewable energy power generation is very reliant on weather conditions and more volatile compared with traditional energy like coal and oil.
On the other hand, enterprises in the net-zero industrial park are not only high energy consumers, but also high value-added industries. Any outage may lead to serious losses, which makes ensuring complete energy reliability a key priority.
To ensure a stable and steady green power system, the net-zero industrial park will not only accurately predict wind and solar output loads, but also ensure power transmitted to the terminal is controllable no matter how the power generation of renewable energy fluctuates.
With real-time dynamic balance of power generation and load conditions, the park can optimize resource allocation and maximize network efficiency while achieving stable wind power output comparable to that of thermal power, no matter whether the sun or wind cooperates.
Envision said the new power system formed by wind power, photovoltaic, energy storage, hydrogen energy and AIoT (artificial-intelligence-powered internet of things) will become a green, stable and reliable energy system.
As a leading technology enterprise providing "source-grid-load-storage-hydrogen "end-to-end net-zero solutions, Envision believes that the transition to renewable energy will bring great opportunities, and that the net-zero industrial park is a key infrastructure project in the building of a net-zero new industrial system.
Aiming to help popularize net-zero industrial park practices overseas, the company plans to build 100 such parks around the world over the next decade with global partners, with the aim of reducing global carbon emissions by 1 billion tons per year.
Asia's industrial sector accounts for over 35 percent of global annual carbon emissions, and the region is very pivotal to the net-zero industrial transition worldwide, said a report of United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific.
Envision signed an agreement with the government of Spain to build Europe's first net-zero industrial park in July, following the launch of the Ordos project. The one in Spain will include the construction of a gigafactory for batteries for electric vehicles, a development and innovation center for digitalization of renewable energy systems, a green hydrogen generation plant to manufacture electrolyzers, and a wind power generation plant for the assembly of smart wind turbines, it said.
"The agreement with the Spanish government is not only critical for Spain, but also for Europe. With the European Union targeting carbon neutrality by 2050, this partnership is highly significant in securing a firm commitment to make the changes required to reach net-zero," Envision's Zhang said.
Envision believes the cost of reducing carbon emissions will mount over the next few years, and it won't be competitive to remain in the same fossil fuel-powered industrial parks. This makes building net-zero industrial parks in areas that were previously underdeveloped due to exposure to wind and sun a wise choice.
"With our new net-zero industrial parks, clients can immediately enjoy cheaper energy now and, in the long run, avoid carbon risks," said the company.
#270
China will maintain its climate change strategy and continue to promote carbon peak and carbon neutrality goals, said an official at a forum held on Saturday in Beijing.
China has always been and will continue to be a key participator, contributor and pioneer in global climate governance, firmly implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement regardless of climate policy rollbacks in other countries, said Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change.
At present, global climate change has evolved from a challenge to an impending crisis, Xie said, adding that in face of climate change, no country can manage alone or stand aloof, and upholding multilateralism and win-win cooperation is the only choice for all.
He pointed out the necessity to pursue both current development and long-term transition and establish a fair and reasonable global climate governance system to boost green, low-carbon, innovative and sustainable development, ensuring a shared future for humankind.
China has always taken concrete actions to contribute to global efforts on mitigating climate change, Xie said.
Official data showed China's carbon emissions per unit of gross domestic product declined by 48.4 percent in 2020 from 2005 levels, exceeding its commitment of a cut of 40 percent to 45 percent, equivalent to a reduction of about 5.79 billion metric tons of carbon emissions.
China's energy structure was further optimized, with the proportion of coal in primary energy dropping from 72 percent to 56 percent, and the proportion of non-fossil energy in primary energy increasing from 7.4 percent to 15.9 percent.
Experts from Indonesia, South Africa and other countries also shared their experiences at the forum, and explored sustainable development paths for developing countries to jointly address climate change.
Djauhari Oratmangun, Indonesian ambassador to China, said that Indonesia has made commitments to reducing carbon emissions, and that the Indonesian government has ratified the Paris Agreement in 2016.
Indonesia has also formulated the National Medium Term Development Plan 2020-2024, which mentioned the country's efforts to promote environment and improve resilience to natural disasters and climate change, he said.
Under the challenge of COVID-19, Indonesia has found development momentum through low-carbon industries, including building renewable energy, standardizing waste management, and developing green industrial zones, he added.
As the current presidency of G20, Indonesia will take energy transition as one of three G20 priorities, the ambassador said.
This year's G20 summit is expected to bring all member states together to discuss carbon emission reductions, advance investment plans to cut coal-fired power plants, and further support green energy transition.
"Currently, southern Africa is experiencing a variety of extreme weather events," said Siyabonga Cyprian Cwele, South Africa's ambassador to China.
These extreme weather events have caused widespread damage, infrastructure damage, and deaths. Developing countries have insufficient funds to adapt to global climate change. At the same time, the pandemic has further consumed limited national resources, while developed countries have failed to fulfill their funding obligations, Cwele said.
He said South Africa is committed to addressing climate change based on the principles of science and fairness, aiming to achieve the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050.
"Our strategy not only focuses on emission reduction in energy and transportation sectors, but also includes industry and other sectors, including in agriculture, forestry and land use," the ambassador added.
Climate change is a global issue that requires collective action to achieve carbon neutrality. Coordinated action will ultimately lead to victory, he added.
#271
Chinese investments in renewable energy are increasing rapidly in sub-Saharan Africa, with major projects set to help light vast areas of the continent while contributing to tackling climate change.
From the Sakai photovoltaic power station in the Central African Republic and the Garissa solar plant in Kenya, to the Aysha wind power project in Ethiopia and the Kafue Gorge hydroelectric station in Zambia, China has implemented hundreds of clean energy, green development projects in Africa, supporting the continent's efforts to tackle climate change.
The projects are seen as crucial at a time when climate change is of concern across the globe-including the recent global heat wave that has hit parts of North Africa and a drought that is devastating parts of the Horn of Africa.
In addition, there is evidence of additional benefits of China's investment in Africa's green energy sector, with newly created jobs and training activities involving local staff.
Liu Yichao, the business manager for China Jiangxi International Kenya who is in charge of several projects across East Africa, said the company has always been committed to improving the level of infrastructure and people's well-being in Africa in many fields, including renewable energy.
"We operate in different construction sectors and we have implemented projects in Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda and Tanzania in the East African region. Even though we are a construction company and have built infrastructure like bridges and hospitals in Africa, we also participate in setting up renewable energy facilities like hydroelectric dams and solar power stations," Liu said.
"One of our latest projects is the Koru-Soin multipurpose dam in western Kenya.... The objective is to build a comprehensive water conservancy project integrating flood control, water supply and irrigation functions," he added.
In May, the company, as the general contractor, signed the contract with Kenya's National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority for construction of the dam.
The project is valued at over $190 million, with a storage capacity of 93.7 million cubic meters. It will provide 72 million liters of water per day for domestic use, irrigate 2,570 hectares and generate 2.5 megawatts of hydropower to be added to the national grid.
The Chinese company is also building the Mwache multipurpose dam in Kenya's coastal Kwale County.
Another major renewable project of Sino-African cooperation in East Africa is the 54.6 MW Garissa solar plant in eastern Kenya which is the largest grid-connected solar power plant in East and Central Africa. The plant was also built by China Jiangxi International Kenya.
According to James Mureithi, the lead engineer at Kenya's Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Corp, the solar farm, which is on 85 hectares and consists of 206,272 solar panels, required an investment of $135.7 million and was funded by the Export-Import Bank of China.
"Generation of power at the solar farm commenced in November 2018. Going by our reports as of March 2021, a total of 215,918 megawatt hours was generated and exported to the national grid at an average daily generation of 247 megawatt hours," Mureithi said.
"Currently, this project is contributing about 2 percent of the national energy mix and has significantly led to a reduction of energy costs in the country while promoting the development of clean, reliable, sustainable and affordable electricity. Plans are also underway for optimization of the plant by introducing a 50 MW wind power project to ensure generation during day and night," he added.
Simon Gicharu, chairman of the Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Corp's board of directors, said 147 new solar power plants are envisioned across Kenya, following the success of the Garissa solar plant. The project will target solar-intensive places such as Mandera, Lamu, Wajir, Tana River, Garissa and Turkana.
"The Kenyan government will not rest on its laurels because the short-term results produced by the largest solar power plant in East Africa at Garissa are encouraging. The power plant has proved to be an exemplary project, with many environmental benefits. That is why we will now invest more in solar power projects," Gicharu said.
Liu said that his company's policy is to share knowledge and expertise on green energy with local technicians. When the company finished building the Garissa solar station, they handed it over to the Kenyan government after ensuring that it was up and running and well staffed.
"Since the plant started operations, we continue to work with the client, who in this case is Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Corp, by sending over technicians when needed. We also have had our technicians and engineers on site since construction started in 2017, and they have been sharing information with Kenyan engineers on setting up, running and troubleshooting at the plant," Liu said.
Other notable green energy projects undertaken in Africa by Chinese companies include the De Aar wind farm in South Africa. The project is being conducted by China's Longyuan Power through its South African subsidiary, Longyuan South Africa Renewables. The installed capacity of the project's 163 wind turbines is 244.5 MW.
In Zambia, Sinohydro Corp is building the Kafue Gorge hydropower station at a cost of $2 billion. The project, which is financed by Export-Import Bank of China and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, is expected to have installed capacity of 750 MW once fully operational.
Despite increased investment in Africa's green energy with the acceleration of Chinese investment, experts said that African governments must demonstrate strong ambition and determination for a clean energy transition through policies and incentives.
In a report titled "China's Investments in Renewable Energy in Africa", published last year by the United Nations' Environment Programme, experts said that African governments should open up the generation, distribution and transmission sectors to private players. A lack of capital to finance such projects and the lack of a conducive environment for private participants are among big challenges facing the continent, the report said.
#272
China's three oil majors all reported first-half net profit surges, with their combined bottom lines exceeding 197 billion yuan ($28.49 billion), riding on an increase in oil and gas output and higher energy prices.
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp (Sinopec), the world's largest refiner by capacity, reported that net income in the first six months surged 10.4 percent year-on-year to a record 43.53 billion yuan while revenue was up 27.9 percent from a year earlier at 1.61 trillion yuan, thanks to strong oil and gas prices despite weakened domestic fuel sales.
PetroChina Co Ltd, the listed arm of China National Petroleum Corp, earlier reported a net profit of 82.39 billion yuan in the first half, an increase of 55.3 percent year-on-year. Its first-half revenue rose 35 percent year-on-year to 1.6 trillion yuan, it said.
Meanwhile, China National Offshore Oil Corp Ltd more than doubled its first-half net profit, with its bottom line surging 115.7 percent year-on-year to 71.89 billion yuan while revenue was 75.6 percent higher at 176.68 billion yuan.
An analyst said the historic net profits for Chinese oil giants in the first half was due to surging prices for oil and gas as well as their continuous efforts in speeding up domestic oil and gas exploration over the past few years.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said China's crude output should reach 200 million metric tons this year.
Luo said he expects a turnaround in the economy to bolster results going forward and the companies are also likely to accelerate spending in the second half as they seek to keep growing oil and gas output to help safeguard the nation's energy security.
The oil majors all stepped up investment in domestic oil and gas exploration amid rising energy prices.
Sinopec said it produced 34.04 million tons of oil and gas equivalent in the first half, up 2.9 percent year-on-year. The company's exploration and development division achieved an operating income of 26.3 billion yuan, up 322 percent year-on-year.
While PetroChina recorded a 3.4 percent year-on-year growth in domestic oil output and a 4.4 percent rise in domestic gas production, CNOOC Ltd has also stepped up oil and gas production during the first six months, with net oil and gas production hitting a record high of 304.8 million barrels of oil equivalent, a year-on-year increase of 9.6 percent, the companies said.
The oil and gas giants are also laying out new energy-related plans as the country goes full throttle on its green energy transition with an aim of peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060.
#273
The Qilu-Shengli Oilfield CCUS project, China's first megaton-scale carbon capture, utilization and storage project, became operational on Monday as part of the nation's overall drive to achieve its carbon neutrality goals, said its operator China Petrochemical Corp.
Located in eastern China's Shandong province, the project, which will reduce annual carbon emissions by 1 million metric tons, equivalent to planting nearly 9 million trees, will provide practical engineering experience and technical data for China's future large-scale CCUS project construction, it said.
The carbon dioxide captured at the Qilu petrochemical refinery will be sent to the Shengli oilfield, where it will be reinjected as part of the field's enhanced oil recovery program. This will not only reduce carbon emissions but also boost oil output at the same time, the company said.
CCUS is the process of capturing carbon dioxide emissions from fossil power generation and industrial processes for storage deep underground or reuse. As oil and gas companies are evolving their business models in the context of the energy transition, CCUS has started to feature more prominently in their strategies and investments.
According to China Petrochemical Corp, the world's largest refiner by capacity, also known as Sinopec, carbon dioxide will be injected into 73 wells to increase crude oil fluidity and improve oil recovery.
The company expects to inject more than 10 million tons of carbon dioxide in 15 years, which will increase oil output by almost 3 million tons and see oilfield recovery efficiency rise by more than 12 percentage points, it said.
Strengthened climate goals and new investment incentives have been delivering unprecedented momentum for CCUS in recent years and the technologies will play an important role in meeting net zero targets, according to the International Energy Agency.
An industry analyst said the project's operation signaled that China's CCUS industry has entered the period of mature commercial operations.
CCUS is an essential part of the solution for China to achieve a carbon peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at Sinopec's Economics and Development Research Institute.
As fossil fuels are still playing a major role, the key to carbon emission reduction lies in technological breakthroughs offering a way to reduce emissions in sectors that are hard to decarbonize, Luo said. Oil companies across the globe are stepping up research and investment in CCUS, which will not only expand their own business but also help them become sustainable in the long term, he added.
A report from Shell said that China, with an estimated 2,400 gigatons in storage capacity, has significant geological potential for storing carbon, second only to that of the United States.
China, which captured 1.52 million tons of carbon dioxide in 2021, currently has more than 40 CCUS pilot projects with a total capacity of 3 million tons, according to statistics.
The Shell report added that many of these projects are small-scale ones linked to enhanced oil recovery that will need to be significantly scaled up over the next four decades.
In a net-zero emissions energy system, a little more than 1.3 gigatons of carbon dioxide per year will need to be captured and permanently stored by 2060. This means that the total CCUS capacity will need to increase more than 400 times in the next four decades, according to Shell.
Sinopec said it plans to step up the industrial development of CCUS during the period of the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25), in order to lay a solid foundation for the large-scale application of CCUS in China.
It plans to open a CCUS technology research and development center before 2025, which will focus on cutting-edge technology breakthroughs in the application of CCUS in the field of wind, solar and hydrogen power, in order to further reduce carbon dioxide emissions and serve the nation's decarbonization needs.
The company is also planning to launch another two-megaton CCUS demonstration areas by the end of the 14th Five-Year Plan, to achieve large-scale development and further facilitate the country's ambition in the field of carbon neutrality, it said.
#275
Premier Li Keqiang said in a congratulatory letter to the 2022 Pujiang Innovation Forum on Saturday that China seeks low-carbon development while pursuing modernization, and expressed the will to strengthen all-around international collaboration.
Li said that low-carbon development concerns the future of the world, and innovation is the foremost driving force to lead this development.
With the theme "Low Carbon: a new mission for global innovation", this year's forum is of great significance in working together to realize sustainable development goals globally, Li said.
As the world's largest developing country, China chose to realize its modernization via low-carbon and green development efforts, which is unprecedented in the history of humanity, and can only be achieved with arduous efforts, Li said.
As a result, China unswervingly upholds the policy of opening-up, and will further expand high-level opening-up to deepen reform, promote high-quality development, and strengthen all-around international cooperation and in-depth communications, in order to achieve a win-win situation, Li added.
The forum, which runs through Tuesday, is jointly hosted by the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Shanghai municipal government, with the Netherlands as this year's country of honor and Hainan as the province of honor.
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, in a letter of congratulations, said the challenges confronting the world need international cooperation and long-term planning, and joint technological advancement and the sharing of innovative ideas are extremely important for everyone to embrace a sustainable future.
The Pujiang Innovation Forum offers us a platform where experts can get together to discuss and display their innovations, he added.
This year's theme addresses one of the most urgent challenges that both China and the Netherlands are facing, Rutte said.
Minister of Science and Technology Wang Zhigang said at the forum's opening ceremony on Saturday that the realization of the carbon neutrality targets involves a technological revolution equating a third industrial revolution, which will restructure the global energy structure, industrial development and the production and lifestyle of human beings.
China has made quite a few major achievements in technological innovations in the past year, and the nation's innovative-driven development strategy has been applied effectively.
Borge Brende, president of the World Economic Forum, also called for strengthened international cooperation. Every nation and every enterprise must work hand in hand, otherwise, the common climate goal cannot be achieved, Brende said.
This year's forum includes dozens of activities including a main forum, sub-forums, seminars, the release of achievements, and the launch of a global technology supply-demand matchmaking platform. Topics covered at the forum include young scientists, women scientists, young elite scientists, global health and development, the Belt and Road Initiative and a green technology bank.
As the country of honor this year, the Netherlands hosted a water technology event on Saturday, featuring Sino-Dutch cooperation on sustainable water technology innovations.
Organizations from the Netherlands and China will also hold an energy dialogue seminar on Monday with speakers from China and Europe providing perspectives on energy transition, innovations in industry decarbonization, green hydrogen and battery technology.
More than 230 experts from about 30 countries and regions are expected to take part in the four-day event both online and offline, discussing topics including low-carbon development driven by technology innovation, as well as deepening technological cooperation in decarbonization.
#276
Boosted by an increase of oil and gas output and higher energy prices, China's two major oil companies saw their combined net profit exceed 150 billion yuan ($21.89 billion) during the first six months this year, a figure close to the net profits for the whole of last year.
PetroChina Co Ltd, the listed arm of China National Petroleum Corp, reported on Thursday an interim profit of 82.39 billion yuan. Revenue during the first half of this year was up 35 percent year-on-year at 1.6 trillion yuan, it said.
The company also recorded a 3.4 percent year-on-year growth in domestic oil output and a 4.4 percent rise in domestic gas production.
CNOOC Ltd has more than doubled its first-half net profit thanks to high oil and gas prices, with its net income rising 115.7 percent year-on-year to 71.89 billion yuan while revenue rose 75.6 percent year-on-year to 176.68 billion yuan, the offshore oil and gas producer reported on Thursday.
The company stepped up oil and gas production during the first six months, with net oil and gas production hitting a record high of 304.8 million barrels of oil equivalent, a year-on-year increase of 9.6 percent, it said.
Analysts said the country's major oil companies have sped up oil and gas exploration and extraction during the past few years, which has led to a steady increase of domestic oil and gas output.
In addition to the steady increase of gas output, the country's crude output is expected to reach 200 million metric tons this year, while rising oil prices also helped ease the cost pressure caused by complex resource conditions, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
The giant oil companies are also laying out new energy-related plans as the country goes full throttle on its green energy transition with the aim of peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060.
CNOOC said the company has been implementing a green transition including the country's first offshore large-scale carbon capture and storage hub in Guangdong province, which will redirect, store and break down emissions in the industry-heavy province.
PetroChina also said it has been actively promoting the development of new energy and new materials while accelerating the construction of new energy bases in the country's desert and wasteland areas.
#277
The United Kingdom's largest energy supplier has vowed to divert 10 percent of profits into a fund to help its poorest customers cope with the fast-rising cost of powering a home.
British Gas, which sells energy to around 12 million domestic and business customers, said it will keep funneling the cash into the British Gas Energy Trust "for the duration of the energy crisis, backdated to the start of 2022".
Chris O'Shea, chief executive of Centrica, the parent company of British Gas, said the support package will be worth 25 million pounds ($29.6 million) a year and start with an initial 12-million-pound donation.
"As a responsible business, we want to do more to support our customers during this difficult time," he said.
The money will be used to help the supplier's poorest customers-those with less than 1,000 pounds in savings and who spend more than 10 percent of disposable income on fuel. Each qualifying home will receive donations of between 250 pounds and 750 pounds.
The company's move follows rival UK energy giant Scottish Power suggesting all energy bills being effectively frozen for customers for two years, with the government picking up the tab for the cost of more expensive energy customers would otherwise have to pay. The government has, sofar, not embraced the idea.
Poverty activists criticized British Gas for offering to divert only 10 percent of profits, with some saying it will do little to help average families struggling to pay heating bills this winter.
Paul de Leeuw, director of the Energy Transition Institute at Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen, said the initial donation from British Gas will only help around 0.5 percent of the company's 7.5 million residential customers.
And he noted that the sum amounts to just 1 percent of parent company Centrica's total profits.
"They've got 7.5 million (residential) energy customers in the UK, so if you look at the money that is available, it's probably going to benefit around 40,000 people max," he said.
The energy crisis, which was triggered by the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the resulting disruption of oil and gas supply, has seen energy bills quadruple for UK householders in the past year.
The high price of fuel has contributed to rampant inflation, which is likely to rise above 18 percent during the first quarter of 2023.
And the inflation rate has triggered industrial unrest and strikes on a scale not seen for decades, as workers seek pay rises that keep up.
So far, the UK government has promised a 15-billion-pound support package to help offset some of the additional costs people are facing, with one-off payments of 650 pounds directed at the poorest 8 million households, and payments of 400 pounds for everyone else.
But critics have said the support package must be expanded to 100 billion pounds, if people are to be spared serious financial hardship.

#279
More multinational energy giants are announcing plans to invest in China's energy sector as a result of its rapidly growing momentum and huge potential, industry experts said.
The investments include a broad range of subsectors such as petrochemicals, hydrogen, vehicle charging stations and carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS).
Global chemical and energy group INEOS, based in London, announced on July 28 that it planned to set up a joint venture with China Petrochemical Corp in Tianjin to manufacture high-density polyethylene.
The joint venture, with a registered capital of about 623 million yuan ($92.1 million), is expected to boost the high-end petrochemical sector in China to meet growing demand, according to China Petrochemical, also known as Sinopec-the world's largest refiner by volume.
In another JV, British energy giant BP plc signed a contract with China Suntien Green Energy Corp Ltd in July to establish a marketing company to help supply liquified natural gas in northern China. That is especially important in view of LNG imports becoming an important factor in satisfying the country's growing demand for gas, helping it bolster progress towards net zero goals, according to Simon Yang, BP China president.
China surpassed Japan as the world's largest importer of liquefied natural gas, accounting for close to 60 percent of the growth in global LNG demand in 2021, according to BP's Statistical Review of World Energy 2022.
London-based multinational Shell plc has also invested more in China's renewable energy in recent years. It has said it would expand its hydrogen footprint in the country by building a network of hydrogen refueling stations in Shanghai, Shell's first hydrogen refueling network in Asia, in cooperation with Shanghai-based State-owned enterprise Shenergy Group Co Ltd.
The JV planned to build six to 10 hydrogen refueling stations in Shanghai and the Yangtze River Delta region in the next five years, rising to 30 stations by 2030.
Thirty stations could provide hydrogen to approximately 3,000 fuel cell trucks or buses daily. The refueling network would help accelerate the adoption of fuel cell vehicles in road freight, public transportation, municipal services and at ports in Shanghai and the Yangtze River Delta region, experts said. It also would support the development of the Shanghai national fuel cell vehicle demonstration city cluster, officials said.
Shell officials also have expressed optimism about prospects for CCUS in China, calling it essential in helping China achieve a carbon peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060.
The country's significant geological potential for storing carbon-an estimated 2,400 gigatons in storage capacity, second only to that of the United States, leaves a lot of room to tap, said Jason Wong, executive chairman of Shell Companies in China.
China has more than 40 CCUS pilot projects with a total capacity of 3 million metric tons. Many of them are small projects linked to enhanced oil recovery that will need to significantly increase in size over the next four decades, he said.
Shell announced plans to join with State-owned oil and gas giant China National Offshore Oil Corp and the Guangdong Provincial Development and Reform Commission in July in building China's first offshore large-scale capture and storage hub in Guangdong province.
The hub is expected to capture up to 10 million tons of carbon dioxide per year, helping significantly reduce carbon dioxide emissions and serve the decarbonization needs of enterprises in the area, it said.
Increasing cooperation between energy multinationals and local players in the energy sector in China has not only helped secure the nation's energy supplies but also helped ensure the stability of the global energy industrial chain and supply chain.
China has a market potential that no other country can match, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
"China's increasing demand for energy and its green transition to replace fossil fuels with cleaner fuels are offering new opportunities for foreign energy players, including Shell, BP and ExxonMobil, to expand their business abroad," he said.
Tang Sisi, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance, a research company, said the country's petrochemical market is one of the fastest growing. BloombergNEF expects China's demand for high-value chemicals to double by 2040.
Luo, at the Sinopec institute, said as the country continues to ramp up its green energy transition with the aim of becoming carbon neutral by 2060, foreign investment in China's energy sector is only expected to rise.
The government recently approved a plan to implement employment-for-grant programs with a key focus on fields including energy, especially power, oil and gas pipelines and renewable energy, which, according to Luo, will offer numerous chances for multinational corporations as they seek more opportunities to expand into renewable power generation in the country.
According to a report released by the International Energy Agency, based in Paris, China was the largest investor in clean energy last year, followed by the European Union and the US.
China spent $380 billion on clean energy last year, far ahead of the EU's $260 billion and $215 billion spent by the US. Also, roughly 80 percent of all electric vehicle sales are in China and Europe, while 90 percent of spending on EV infrastructure is in China, Europe and the US, it said.
#280
Economists are dusting off the dreaded portmanteau word "stagflation" to describe the looming crisis that threatens to envelop the eurozone this year.
Most will well remember the economic woes brought on by the Great Recession of 2007 to 2009, but this new challenge is of a different ilk, said Iain Begg, a professor at the London School of Economics' European Institute.
"The former was a financial crisis with no surge in inflation, but this is a different sort of crisis largely emanating from the energy market. The better parallel is with the mid-1970s," Begg said.
The conflict in Ukraine has increased gas costs, sending consumer prices soaring, and efforts to combat this inflation have slowed economic growth.
Economists define "stagflation "as a period of slow economic growth, high unemployment and inflation.
"This scenario qualifies as stagflation," investment firm UBS said in a recent client note, prompting flashbacks to half a century ago, when the term was popularized amid an oil price crisis that plunged the United States and much of Europe into recession.
UBS has downgraded eurozone growth from 2.7 percent to 2.6 percent this year, and the European Commission recently said inflation in the eurozone will hit 7.6 percent this year, a major uptick from the May estimate of 6.1 percent.
The conflict in Ukraine, coupled with reliance on Russian gas, is a key driver behind Europe's economic woes. The main gas pipeline from Russia has reduced capacity to as low as 20 percent at various times over the summer, sparking fears of a total cutoff.
"The (European Union) is in a perma-crisis, which implies a very challenging period ahead," said Fabian Zuleeg, chief economist at the European Policy Center think tank. "But how and whether the EU manages to deal with all current challenges ... will depend on difficult political choices in the coming months."
The situation has been exacerbated by turmoil in two of the region's largest economies, Germany and Italy. Last month, the relatively stable coalition government in Italy was upended by infighting over a key relief bill to combat inflation, culminating in the resignation of Prime Minister Mario Draghi.
Italy has since approved a 17.4 billion euro ($17.85 billion) package to shield households and consumers from inflation, which recently decelerated from a historic high of 8 percent, but turmoil in the country remains a headache for the European Central Bank, according to Begg.
"There will be a concern that financial markets will target Italy in a way that, first, obliges the European Central Bank to respond more emphatically, and second, leads to renewed pressure on other relatively indebted eurozone members," Begg said.
Political upheaval in Italy has the potential to weaken the European Union, should anti-EU parties manage to succeed in upcoming elections, and early polling shows these factions gaining ground, said Angel Alonso Arroba, vice-dean in the school of public affairs at IE University in Madrid.
Last week, Deutsche Bank said that Germany is staring down recession, and Friedrich Merz, who is leader of the German opposition party, the Christian Democratic Union, recently said the nation is facing "the worst economic crisis since the founding of the Federal Republic of Germany (in 1949)".
Arroba said that, since Germany is the economic engine of Europe, "recession there is bad news for the rest of the (EU)".
"I am not sure whether Germany is heading for the worst crisis since its founding, but, certainly, we are in a difficult context for the world economy as a whole", marked by inflation and the disruptive effects of the conflict in Ukraine, he added.
Germany can trace its current high reliance on Russian gas back to 2011 and a key decision to phase down nuclear energy production following the Fukushima disaster. Germany is now scrambling to diversify its energy mix, with new legislation that promises to expedite the country's green energy transition by doubling renewable power capacity over the next eight years.
In a sense, Europe is importing the inflation it is experiencing at the moment. The good news, according to Begg, is that nations can alleviate this stress by switching to alternative sources of energy. The bad news is that this will take time, and for now, the European community has little choice but to "grin and bear it" when it comes to stagflation.
Arroba said: "Any response needs to be coordinated at the European level. Unity and cohesion in the response to the crisis will be critical. If European countries engage in competition among themselves, they will make things worse."
#281
Foreign diplomats in China hailed China's development in green and innovative growth during a tour of a Chinese State-owned energy company on Tuesday, expressing their expectations to deepen energy cooperation with China.
During the tour of the State Grid Corporation of China, a major electric power provider in the country, the diplomats learned about the company's innovative projects, including a smart network for charging new energy vehicles.
They were also informed about the company's project that transmitted wind, solar and hydro power to all venues of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics from Zhangbei county of Hebei province, making it the first Olympic games that was 100 percent powered by green energy.
Siyabonga Cyprian Cwele, South African ambassador to China, said he was impressed by the company's efforts to provide a reliable electric power supply for a big country like China, as well as China's "strong commitment" to promoting energy transition to tackle climate change and meet the goal of carbon neutralization by 2060.
John Moffat Fugui, Solomon Islands' ambassador to China, said he hopes his country will engage with the company further and cooperate with China more in dealing with climate change, an "existential risk" for Pacific Islands.
"China is very progressive in terms of (dealing with) climate change, and has taken on very large initiatives in terms of green projects... It is my earnest hope that we can do a lot more in terms of climate change," Fugui said.
Joao Batista Magalhaes, counselor of the Brazilian embassy in China, said the Belo Monte power transmission project conducted by the State Grid is "one of the most important examples of the win-win cooperation between Brazil and China".
"We attribute high priority to receiving investments from China," he said, adding that Brazil, currently the largest receiver of Chinese investment in Latin America, welcomes even more investments from China in the future.
Sponsored by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Tuesday's tour was the first of a series of events to invite foreign diplomats to tour China's State-owned companies and introduce them to China's achievements in implementing the new development philosophy and building a new development pattern.
#282
China is expected to further expand its installed nuclear power capacity during the 2022-25 period as the country goes full speed ahead with its green energy transition, eyeing carbon neutrality by 2060, said an industry group.
Prompted by the goal of peaking carbon emissions and achieving carbon neutrality, China is expected to approve six to eight new nuclear units each year between 2022 and 2025, said Wang Shoujun, president of the Chinese Nuclear Society, during the opening ceremony of the 29th International Conference on Nuclear Engineering held in Beijing on Tuesday.
"Installed capacity of nuclear power under operation is expected to reach 70 million kilowatts by 2025 from the current 55.8 million kW and nuclear power is expected to account for 10 percent of China's total power generation by 2035, compared with 5 percent in 2021," he said.
Wang said that after more than 30 years of development, China has risen from being a novice to a pioneer in the nuclear power industry, with huge progress in localizing nuclear technology, including its third-generation Hualong One pressurized water nuclear reactor design, a Chinese reactor with full proprietary intellectual property rights, which is also one of the most widely accepted third-generation nuclear power reactors in the market.
In addition, the country has also been consistently pushing forward research and development of large advanced pressurized water reactors and high temperature gas-cooled reactors, with numerous technological breakthroughs in onshore commercial modular small reactor construction as well as numerous advanced nuclear energy systems, he said.
Wang added that as a stable and reliable clean and low-carbon type of energy, nuclear power is an important energy source boosting China's green development. As China continues pushing forward the goals of peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060, with more attention focused on energy security, it is believed that the nuclear power sector will see massive opportunities in the years to come.
China has become largely self-sufficient in numerous sectors, including reactor design and construction, as well as other aspects of the fuel cycle. It has also been working on exporting nuclear technology to the rest of the world, he said.
China saw its nuclear power generation capacity continue to expand in 2022, hitting a high of 166.3 billion kilowatt-hours in the first five months, an increase of 4.5 percent year-on-year, said the China Nuclear Energy Association.
Figures released by the association show that each 1-million-kW nuclear power generation unit, compared with traditional coal-fired power generation modalities, can effectively reduce carbon dioxide emissions by more than 6 million metric tons per year, and thus greatly reduce carbon emissions.
Deng Ge, secretary-general of the China Atomic Energy Authority, said China had 54 nuclear power units under operation by end-June, with an installed capacity of 55.8 million kW, ranking third in the world. The number of nuclear power units under construction rose to 23, ranking tops worldwide, it said.
An analyst said the ongoing global energy crisis has left many Western nations planning a return to nuclear power and China should make full use of its strengths in global nuclear energy cooperation to further boost its market advantages.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research firm BloombergNEF, said China also has ambitions to export its own nuclear technology to other countries in the future, especially when Hualong prototypes mature, so that more developing countries can enjoy zero-emissions power.
Nuclear power has further illustrated its pivotal role in the country's energy mix since last year's energy shortfall, and it is quite essential in ensuring the stability and consistency of a new power system dominated by new energy in the country, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
Luo said China will continue its support for the nuclear sector considering the current policy direction, which has been leaning toward nuclear power, and there is substantial room for nuclear power to further expand on the global stage, as European countries are already shifting from banning the power-generating modality to restarting it.
#283
The potential for global warming to cause catastrophic, humanity-ending events is "dangerously unexplored", according to an international team of climate experts that has called for governments and institutions to establish so-called climate endgame research agendas.
Public discourse around climate change is often centered on the energy transition, and keeping warming to below 2 C. But a new paper in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences suggests we neglect a more pessimistic view of the future at our peril.
"Climate change has played a role in every mass extinction event," said lead author Luke Kemp from the University of Cambridge's Center for the Study of Existential Risk. "It has helped fell empires and shaped history."
The doomsday scenarios put forth by researchers from China, the United Kingdom, Germany, and the United States involve climate targets being missed by wide margins, as well as natural and man-made disasters triggering a series of cascading events.
Kemp said paths to disaster are not limited to the direct impacts of high temperatures, such as extreme weather events.
"Knock-on effects, such as financial crises, conflict, and new disease outbreaks could trigger other calamities, and impede recovery from potential disasters such as nuclear war," he said. "The catastrophic risk is there, but we need a more detailed picture."
The team urged the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to dedicate a future report to catastrophic climate change, which it hopes will galvanize research and inform the public. Such a report should consider outcomes ranging from a 10 percent loss of the global population to eventual human extinction.
Kristie Ebi, an epidemiologist from the University of Washington in the US who contributed to the research, said a greater appreciation of catastrophic climate scenarios can help compel public action.
"Understanding nuclear winter performed a similar function for debates over nuclear disarmament," Ebi said.
Authors of the paper proposed a new research agenda that includes what they call the "four horsemen" of the climate endgame: famine and malnutrition, extreme weather, conflict, and vector-borne diseases.
Thirty million people already live under average annual temperatures of 29 degrees in the Sahara and the Gulf coast, meanwhile 20 million people are forced to leave their homes and move to other areas in their countries each year due to resource scarcity and extreme weather events, according to the United Nations.
"By 2070, these temperatures and the social and political consequences will directly affect two nuclear powers, and seven maximum containment laboratories housing the most dangerous pathogens," said Xu Chi, a researcher from Nanjing University in China who co-authored the paper. "There is serious potential for disastrous knock-on effects."
Modeling done by the team shows areas of extreme heat - or an annual average temperature of more than 29 C - could cover 2 billion people by 2070, with many of them living in densely populated and politically fragile areas.
#284
For a long time, part of the core business of Shell plc in China has been to develop onshore and offshore oil and gas resources with local partners, and to operate a retail network of nearly 1,900 gasoline stations in the country.
However, as the nation steps up efforts to reduce its carbon footprint, the global energy behemoth is increasingly sensing the massive market potential in its carbon capture and storage (CCS) sector and aims to further expand its presence in China.
The company plans to explore the feasibility of developing a CCS hub in the Daya Bay National Economic and Technological Development Zone in Huizhou, Guangdong province, which is expected to become China's first offshore large-scale CCS hub, aiming to capture up to 10 million metric tons of carbon dioxide per year.
"The surging demand for CCS in China provides Shell with a substantial opportunity to grow its sectoral decarbonization business," said Anna Mascolo, executive vice-president of Shell Emerging Energy Solutions.
The project will not only secure the option to reduce emissions from Shell's expanding Nanhai petrochemical plant and other industrial players in the area, but also help integrate and scale up the company's growing low-carbon energy offerings in the country, she said.
Oil companies across the world should further step up research and investment in CCS and set up demonstration projects, which will not only expand their own business but also help them become sustainable in the long run, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
In addition to Shell, US energy giant ExxonMobil is also involved with offshore carbon capture and storage in Guangdong, and is cooperating with State-owned oil and gas giant China National Offshore Oil Corp to jointly tap the potential of the CCS sector in China.
So is TotalEnergies. In China, the company has been involved in researching the development of large-scale, low-cost and high-efficiency carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) technology related to refining, petrochemicals, power and other energy industries. It aims to reduce at least 15 percent of carbon dioxide emissions in refining and chemical processes.
The commitment of China, a pioneer in CCUS technology, to reducing carbon emissions is clear, in both its fundamental research and the development of new technologies, it said.
The company also signed a partnership agreement with China National Petroleum Corp in June to conduct extensive knowledge exchanges and cooperation in CCUS, energy conservation, emissions reduction, as well as new energy innovations, as part of joint efforts to address the changes and challenges in the energy and petrochemical industries.
#285
Indonesia has flagged its strong commitment to curbing emissions, with its plans to reduce reliance on fossil fuels likely to resonate with fellow members of the G20 group of nations at a summit in Bali where climate action is expected to be high on the agenda.
Upon Indonesia taking over the G20 presidency late last year, President Joko Widodo vowed "inclusive, people-oriented, environmentally friendly and sustainable growth" for his country, the largest in Southeast Asia. He spoke of Indonesia becoming a driving force for collaboration on efforts to tackle climate change, a task that has been elevated by the country's hosting of the grouping's leaders summit on the resort island in November.
On Tuesday, Widodo met with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing, where he gained Chinese support for hosting the summit and related meetings. Representatives of an organization known as the Energy Transition Working Group of G20 will gather in Bali in late August. The Energy Transition Ministerial Meeting will take place there the following month, with discussions on technology and funding needs to enable a green transition for economies around the world.
Widodo has said that Indonesia needs big investments and low-carbon technology to support its switch to clean energy.
Former environment minister Sonny Keraf said Indonesia needs to make full use of its abundant sources of renewable energy. In addition to hydropower, Indonesia can make use of geothermal energy, plentiful solar resources and year-round strong winds, as well as energy derived from ocean waves.
The energy crisis exacerbated by the Russia-Ukraine conflict should have made all parties, especially the government, aware that the transition to renewable energies is urgent, Keraf said. However, Keraf, who now teaches environmental ethics at Jakarta's Atmajaya University, said the production of electricity from renewable sources remains unattractive to private investors in Indonesia because generation using fossil fuels is cheaper.
One of the world's biggest coal producers and exporters, Indonesia is committed to gradually reducing its use of coal, which accounts for about 60 percent of the country's electricity generation. The potential contribution from hydropower is estimated at 75,000 megawatts.
Great potential
So far, only about 7 percent of the nation's hydropower potential has been tapped, and more investments are expected over the coming years from Chinese and Japanese firms.
Micro-hydropower projects are seen as a good option as remote villages are often sited along rivers across the archipelago. Such projects are already helping to improve people's livelihoods.
Among the hydropower projects involving Chinese investors is one taking shape on the Sungai Kayan River in resource-rich North Kalimantan Province. When completed, it will have a capacity of 9,000 MW, making it the country's largest hydropower plant. Electricity from the site is expected to serve the new national capital, Nusantara, which is being developed in Penajam Paser Utara in East Kalimantan.
On a smaller scare, a micro-hydropower plant built at a 20-meter-high waterfall in the village of Tiworiwu in East Nusa Tenggara Province lights up hundreds of homes in the area. Built and operated by a private investor, the plant supplies power to state electricity company PLN, which then sends it to neighborhoods on its power lines.
"Villagers here are so thankful. Now they can also peel cashew nuts with electric equipment" and then sell them, power plant manager Ivan Bhigu said. He said PLN is initiating the development of several hydro projects in other parts of East Nusa Tenggara.
The government and the parliament are also deliberating a bill that aims to allow the building of nuclear power plants in Indonesia.
ThorCon Power Indonesia is the only nuclear company operating in Indonesia. After conducting joint studies with universities, the company proposed to the government that it build nuclear power plants with private investment.
With the climate crisis, nuclear power is a good alternative as it is environmentally friendly, cheap and does not require government funding, said Bob S. Effendi, operation director of ThorCon Power Indonesia.
As for natural gas, Indonesia wants to apply carbon capture, utilization and storage technology to make the fuel more environmentally friendly.
#286
Nation's green push spurs 137% y-o-y surge in newly installed capacity in H1
China's expected new solar capacity in 2022 is on course to hit a record as the country goes full throttle on its green energy transition with the aim of peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060, said an industry group.
Total installations are expected to further gain momentum to stand at between 80 gigawatts and 100 GW this year, breaking last year's record of some 55 GW, said Wang Bohua, honorary chairman of the China Photovoltaic Industry Association (CPIA).
China built 30.88 GW of new solar power capacity from January to June, up 137 percent from a year earlier, while the total installed capacity of solar power increased by 25.8 percent year-on-year to 340 million kilowatts, Wang said.
Prompted by the goal of a carbon peak, investment in the country's renewable energy market has witnessed rapid development during the first half of this year. Investment in solar power generation projects roared by 283.6 percent year-on-year to 63.1 billion yuan ($9.35 billion) in the first six months, said the National Energy Administration.
Photovoltaic module exports were also on a spree, with the volume reaching 78.6 GW in the first six months, up 74 percent year-on-year, while the total export of PV products also hit a new high of around $25.9 billion, up 113 percent year-on-year, the CPIA said.
An analyst said the rocketing growth, both investment and newly added installed capacity, was a result of supportive domestic policies for new energy development in the country as it's in full swing to transition to a low-carbon society.
The European market, for example, sees more than 90 percent of its solar component supply coming from China, leading to consistent surging exports of Chinese solar components, despite the climbing raw material costs, said Jiang Yali, a solar analyst at BloombergNEF.
While surging energy prices are also driving large-scale utility installation, Europe needs to rely on China in the short-to midterm due to its relatively small scale of manufacturing capacity, Jiang said.
China, the world's largest producer of wind and solar energy as well as the largest domestic and outbound investor in renewable energy, is already leading in renewable energy production figures, according to the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
China has the political incentive, economic capability, and moral consensus needed to lead the global renewable energy sector, said the center, believing in the future leadership of China in global renewable energy development.
However, Wang also warned that new restrictions on land use could pose a threat to future capacity growth, with China currently planning on new rules to restrict solar developers from building on arable land or coastlines and riverbanks.
Eyeing to more than double its renewables capacity to 1,200 GW by 2030, up from 635 GW at the end of last year, China has been developing large-scale renewable energy bases in desert regions to fully take advantage of the sufficient solar and wind resources in the regions.
The country's total installed capacity for renewable energy generation rose to 1.1 billion kW during the last 10 years, with the generation capacity of hydropower, wind, solar and biomass ranking at the top in the world, the National Energy Administration said.
The combined installed capacity of wind and solar power has reached 670 million kW, almost 90 times that in 2012, cementing its role as a global leader in renewable energy capacity growth, it said.
During the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25), China's renewable energy generation capacity is expected to account for more than 50 percent of the total and the generation capacity for wind and solar power is to be doubled, it said.
#287
China Energy Investment Corp said it will further ramp up domestic coal output to ensure sufficient and stable energy supply in the country amid a tight global market.
While boosting domestic coal production, China Energy will ensure clean and efficient utilization of the fossil fuel as the country goes full throttle on its green energy transition with the aim of peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060.
The company produced 300 million metric tons of coal during the first half, up 6.2 percent year-on-year, while its power generation during the period rose to 526.4 billion kilowatt-hours, up 1 percent year-on-year, said Zhang Yuxin, spokesperson for the company, during a news conference in Beijing on Monday.
Coal sales of the company rose to 390 million tons, and both revenue and net profit rose to record highs, he said, without disclosing the actual figures.
An analyst said domestic coal suppliers' efforts in ramping up energy output will further ensure domestic power supply to avoid possible shortages against a backdrop of geopolitical tensions and extreme weather conditions like heatwaves.
Clean coal, together with gas power, will play a crucial role in ensuring the stability and consistency of a new power system dominated by new energy in the country, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
Coal-fired power, however, continues to have strategic importance in the country's energy mix. While China has been actively developing cleaner alternatives like wind, solar and hydropower on a large scale, coal-fired power remains irreplaceable as renewable power like wind and solar is intermittent and not able to continuously generate power.
Luo said he believes coal will continue to play an integral part in China's energy supply in the years to come.
International trends have pushed global energy prices up significantly this year. Consequently, China's efforts to stabilize domestic prices have also increased and energy supply has held steady.
Data from the National Bureau of Statistics showed that first-half coal imports at 115 million tons were down 17.5 percent year-on-year. On the other hand, the country mined 2.19 billion tons of coal, up 11 percent year-on-year.
#288
Energy MNC vows more investment in NEVs, CCUS for bigger market presence
Eyeing the rapidly growing momentum and potential of China's renewable energy sector, Shell Plc vows to further expand its presence in the country through investments in hydrogen, electric vehicle charging as well as carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) to get a larger piece of the energy pie.
Shell is anticipating more growth, investment and local partnership opportunities in China where it has had a presence for 128 years, a top company official said.
China is massively important for Shell as the country goes full throttle on its green energy transition with the aim of becoming carbon neutral by 2060, which is expected to provide massive opportunities for global energy corporations like Shell, said Jason Wong, executive chairman of Shell Companies in China, during an interview in Beijing on Thursday.
"The government recently approved a plan to implement employment-for-grant programs with a key focus on fields including energy, especially power, oil and gas pipelines and renewable energy. This plan provides Shell with massive opportunities as we are also looking for more chances to expand in renewable energy power generation as well as electric vehicle charging services in the country."
Wong said the companies have been stepping up the fast-expanding new energy vehicle sector in China for years, from hundreds of charging points last year to more than 3,000 charging points today.
The company will form a joint venture with BYD to develop EV charging networks in China, with the initial plan to operate a network of more than 10,000 charging points in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, in the near future and further expand the network to more locations nationwide.
Shell will also help improve the charging experience of BYD customers who use battery-powered electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids in China while the partnership expands from China and Europe and extends to other regions.
Wong said the company will also tap into the CCUS sector in China considering its massive market potential.
"For China to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, we believe more than 1.3 gigatons of carbon dioxide per year will need to be captured and permanently stored by then, which means CCUS capacity will need to increase more than 400-fold in the next four decades," said Wong.
The company signed a memorandum of cooperation with State-owned oil and gas giant China National Offshore Oil Corp, the Guangdong Provincial Development and Reform Commission and ExxonMobil in June to explore the feasibility of developing a carbon capture and storage (CCS) hub in the Daya Bay National Economic and Technological Development Zone in Huizhou, Guangdong province.
This will be China's first offshore large-scale CCS hub that is capable of capturing up to 10 million tons of carbon dioxide per year, helping reduce significant carbon dioxide emissions from the zone and serve the decarbonization needs of enterprises in the area, said the company.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said CCUS offers a way to reduce emissions from sectors that are hard to decarbonize and Shell's commitment confirms China's massive potential in the CCUS sector, which is also attracting more international players.
For oil companies, CCUS will not only expand their own business but also help them become sustainable in the long run, he said.
According to Shell, China has an estimated 2,400 Gt in storage capacity and significant geological potential for storing carbon, second only to the United States.
It currently has more than 40 carbon capture, utilization and storage pilot projects with a total capacity of 3 million tons. However, many of these projects are still small developments.
China, as the largest domestic and outbound investor in renewable energy, has made impressive progress in developing renewable energy supported by years of research and development, preferential policies and its scale of economy.
"While China's carbon exchange market is not as mature as developed countries, we believe it's a good start and we plan ahead, as we believe CCS is an essential part of the solution for China to achieve a carbon peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060," said Wong.
#289
Central banks' efforts to contain high and rising inflation are fueling growth headwinds and threatening to tip the global economy into recession. But the proximate cause of today's inflationary pressures is a large, broad-based and persistent imbalance between supply and demand.
Higher interest rates will dampen demand, but supply-side measures must also play a large role in strategies to tame inflation.
Over the past year or so, the rollback of containment policies amid the COVID-19 pandemic has spurred a simultaneous surge in demand and contraction in supply. While this was to be expected, supply has proved surprisingly inelastic. In labor markets, for example, shortages have become the norm, leading to canceled flights, disrupted supply chains, restaurant closures and challenges to healthcare delivery.
These shortages appear to be at least partly the result of a pandemic-driven shift in preferences. Many types of workers are seeking greater flexibility-including hybrid or work-from-home options-or otherwise improved working conditions. Healthcare workers, in particular, report feeling burned out by their jobs.
If this is true, the inflation picture must include an adjustment in relative labor costs. To bring markets back into balance, wage and income increases will be needed, even for jobs for which there was previously an ample supply of workers.
This transition will generate some inflationary pressure. Yes, nominal prices and wages have limited downward flexibility. But at a time of excess demand, companies generally try to pass on higher costs via price increases-and they often get away with it, at least for a while.
Lingering blockages associated with the pandemic, especially in China, which remains committed to its dynamic zero-COVID policy, are also fueling inflation. But these blockages will eventually subside, as will short- to medium-term capacity constraints caused by shifts in the composition of demand (in terms of both products and geography), though some will persist for a while. Capacity takes time to build.
But today's inflation has deeper roots. Over the past several decades, the activation of massive amounts of underutilized labor and productive capacity in emerging economies has generated deflationary pressures. With those resources having now been significantly depleted, the relative prices of many goods are set to rise.
Moreover, there is a global push to diversify and, in some cases, localize demand and supply chains-a response to the increasing frequency of severe shocks and rising geopolitical tensions. A more resilient global economy is a more expensive one, and prices will reflect that.
The Ukraine conflict has not only accelerated this supply-chain transformation, but also has caused energy and food prices to skyrocket, further exacerbating inflation, especially in lower-income countries.
In the case of fossil fuels, a previous pattern of underinvestment in capacity at multiple points along the supply chain has compounded the problem.
But there is even more to the story. More than 75 percent of the world's GDP is produced in countries with aging populations. Old-age dependency ratios are rising, and in some countries, the workforce is shrinking. Productivity gains could counter the contraction of labor supply relative to demand, but after nearly two decades of falling productivity growth, such gains are not forthcoming.
So inflation is rising fast, and central banks are under pressure to take drastic action. But their only real option is to reduce demand, by raising interest rates and withdrawing liquidity. These measures have already spurred a massive repricing of assets, including currencies, and they threaten to push global growth below potential-with lower-income economies suffering disproportionately-and reduce investment in the energy transition.
However, there is another way: supply-side measures. Trade and investment have long enabled supply to expand rapidly in response to growing global demand. But for nearly two decades-and especially in the last few years-proliferating trade barriers have been adding friction to this process. Creeping protectionism must be reversed, with US President Joe Biden considering the removal of tariffs imposed by his predecessor, Donald Trump, and Europe accelerating the integration of its services markets.
At the same time, efforts must be made to improve productivity. Digital technologies will be crucial. While the pandemic helped to accelerate the digital transformation, many sectors-including the public sector-are lagging, and concerns about the effects of automation on employment persist.
But in a supply-constrained world characterized by persistent labor shortages, productivity-boosting digital technologies, together with higher wages for workers, would go a long way toward improving the balance between supply and demand. For example, artificial intelligence-based tools can perform a wide range of functions, from screening luggage more efficiently at airports to analyzing medical imaging to detect cancer. Beyond digital technologies, regulatory regimes can be streamlined and improved in order to reduce supply-side bottlenecks.
Such an agenda must be applied to the public and private sectors. At the international level, efforts to facilitate trade, address supply-chain rigidities and close data gaps will be essential. Otherwise, central banks will be left to deal with inflation alone, with dire consequences for the entire global economy.
#290
The European Parliament voted on Wednesday to back the proposal to label natural gas and nuclear energy as "green" despite strong opposition from many lawmakers and environmentalists decrying the plan as "greenwashing".
The proposal to label gas and nuclear power plants as climate-friendly investments was first circulated by the European Commission last December as part of its so-called EU Taxonomy.
A motion to block the proposal on Wednesday received only 278 votes in favor among the MEPs, with 328 against and 33 abstentions. A total of 353 votes were needed in order to reject the proposal in the 705-seat parliament.
The majority of MEPs from the center-right European People's Party, the largest group in parliament, and the majority of the centrist Renew Europe Group supported the new labeling, while most of the MEPs from the Greens and Social Democrats opposed the commission proposal.
Now it is up to member states to decide their fate. Unless 20 of the 27 EU member states are against the proposal, it will become law in the bloc next year.
The European Commission welcomed the results of the vote. In a statement, it said gas and nuclear will now be included in the EU Taxonomy as transitional activities in a limited number of circumstances and under strict conditions.
Mairead McGuinness, the European commissioner in charge of financial services, financial stability and capital markets union, said the proposal is a pragmatic one to ensure that private investments in gas and nuclear, needed for energy transition, meet strict criteria.
"Investment in renewables is already prioritized in our taxonomy," she said.
Thomas Waitz, an MEP from Austria and co-chair of the European Green Party, mocked the proposal.
"If gas and nuclear are sustainable, fries are salad," he wrote in a tweet right before Wednesday's vote.
Austria and Luxembourg have already threatened to sue the European Commission for the green labeling at the European Union court.
Young Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg said the vote on Wednesday will "delay a desperately needed real sustainable transition and deepen our dependency on Russian fuels".
Key EU member states were split initially on the proposal, with support voiced by France but rejection by Germany.
France has 56 nuclear reactors and generates 70 percent of its electricity from nuclear energy, the highest in the world. Germany is still moving forward on its promise to phase out its nuclear power plants by the end of this year, despite renewed debate on the issue amid the worsening energy crisis. The German Green Party, a key player in the coalition government, has long argued that the environmental hazards caused by the disposal of nuclear waste far exceed the benefits.
#291
The Inner Mongolia autonomous region is ramping up efforts to invest in new energy as China goes full throttle on its green energy transition, with the aim of becoming carbon neutral by 2060.
As the country's largest coal producer, the region has been adjusting its energy structure while keeping the coal flowing in recent years. In Ordos, for example, the Bortoi coal mine, which has produced 175 million metric tons of coal, is currently covered with 1.12 million photovoltaic panels that can generate up to 900 million kilowatt-hours of clean energy each year.
Encouraged by preferential government policies, three companies came to Bortoi in September 2020 and have been developing the solar power project since.
From major coal production hub to mega new energy producer, Bortoi is only one part of Inner Mongolia's green transition efforts.
Construction of a massive 1 million kW solar power production base in Ordos was completed last year. It is capable of generating up to 2 billion kWh hours of energy each year-the equivalent generated by 680,000 tons of coal-and will support a future power grid, according to Gao Jian, head of the new energy industry development office of the development and reform commission of Dalad Banner in Ordos.
Inner Mongolia also finished developing a series of wind power projects last year, including one in Xilin Gol League with a capacity of 7 million kW and one in Ulanqab with 6 million kW.
The region's installed capacity of grid-connected new energy increased by 3.71 million kWh last year, taking installed capacity to 54.46 million kWh, or 35.2 percent of Inner Mongolia's total energy output.
Power generated through new energy sources last year rose to 119.1 billion kWh, a 28.8 percent increase year-on-year, and the region's installed and generating capacity has led the country for years.
Inner Mongolia's efforts are in line with the government's push to accelerate solar and wind power development during the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) period.
According to a statement jointly released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration on May 30, the government will increase the total installed capacity of wind and solar power to 1.2 billion kW by 2030. It will also cover as much as 50 percent of buildings with rooftop solar panels as part of a broader clean-energy generation and storage push.
China will also speed up the construction of solar and wind power generation facilities in the Gobi Desert and other arid regions amid efforts to boost renewable power consumption, taking advantage of plentiful solar and wind resources there, the statement said.
According to the National Energy Administration, China added a record 54.9 gigawatts of solar farms last year, 14 percent more than in 2020.
The country has also been stepping up financial support for the development of wind and solar power generation, including promoting green financial products and services, and strengthening support for green bonds and green loans for new energy projects. It will conduct further research into the inclusion of new energy projects in real estate investment trusts.
According to Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at BloombergNEF, Inner Mongolia has managed to upgrade its energy industry to a new energy-based structure in response to a national effort to reduce energy intensity.
"In the past, local GDP growth relied on heavy energy consumption and coal-related pollution," he said. "However, Inner Mongolia successfully installed 5.5 percent more wind power and 14.2 percent more solar power facilities last year, and more will be installed this year."
According to Wei, a major advantage for Inner Mongolia is that it has two separate power grids that fit into different paths of decarbonization.
As the major national energy base, Inner Mongolia has set the goal of new energy surpassing thermal power generation by 2030.
In terms of new energy, Inner Mongolia's installed generating capacity should already exceed that of thermal power by 2025, according to Chen Zheng, deputy director of the region's energy administration, adding that this year alone, 262 new energy projects each with an investment of over 100 million yuan ($15.77 million) will break ground.
The region will also take measures to promote the development of an industrial chain for the manufacture of wind power, photovoltaic and other new-energy equipment, he said.
The development of energy storage has also been stepped up.
According to data released by the administration, coal output in Inner Mongolia last year exceeded 1 billion tons. In terms of power transmission, 246.7 billion kWh of electricity was exported from the region, making it first in China for the 17th consecutive year. Clean energy has been sent nationwide, facilitating the government's ambition of achieving peak carbon emissions by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060.
Inner Mongolia is looking to replace more of its fossil fuel with clean energy this year, with plans to add an additional 20 million kW of new energy to power grids this year.
According to Chen Zheng, the region will speed up the construction of major energy projects, which will account for 40 percent of the region's total fixed-asset investment.
It will also promote the development of a new energy equipment industrial chain to manufacture fixtures for wind, solar and hydrogen power and energy storage, he said. 
#292
Principle of 'establishing new before abolishing old' is crucial, says official
Building an inclusive, green and low-carbon economy is crucial to promoting China's quality development, but the country should promote the low-carbon transition in a rational and orderly manner in order to ensure energy security, Vice-Premier Han Zheng said on Thursday.
He made the remark at the annual general meeting of China Council for International Cooperation on Environment and Development, which also marked the council's 30th anniversary.
The council, chaired by the vice-premier, is a high-level think tank for the Chinese government and is also known as the CCICED.
This year's meeting, from Monday to Thursday, had the theme of Building an Inclusive, Green and Low-carbon Economy. Energy security was highlighted by many experts and officials as they addressed the gathering.
Building an inclusive, green and low-carbon economy is very important, but the work should be promoted in line with the country's national conditions by firmly adhering to the principle of "establishing the new before abolishing the old", said Han, who is also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee.
While giving higher priority to the development of clean energies, Han said, China should also vigorously strengthen its abilities in a clean and efficient utilization of coal.
Coal accounts for 94 percent of the fossil fuel reserves in China. About 70 percent of the oil supply and about 40 percent of the natural gas in China is imported, according to China Coal News.
The vice-premier also called for an intensified endeavor to strengthen the country's institutions and policies for low-carbon transition. The roles of market and price mechanisms, government planning and policy guidance should all be fully leveraged in the work, he said.
Upholding the concept of a community of a shared future for mankind, China will proactively participate in global climate governance, Han said. The country also aims to promote the building of a fair and rational global climate governance system for win-win results.
Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change, noted the tight energy supply around the globe amid the repeated resurgences of the COVID-19 pandemic and the volatile international landscape.
Against this backdrop, "many countries have made decisions to develop clean energies to relieve their dependence on fossil energy and enhance their capabilities in ensuring energy security," he said, addressing a forum held on the sidelines of the CCICED annual gathering on Tuesday.
China, for example, has specified that, as it endeavors to realize its climate targets, it will give priority to completing the energy transition by optimizing its energy structure, he continued. By the end of 2021, China's installed capacity of renewable-energy power generation had exceeded 1 billion kilowatts, one-third of the global total.
"The difficulties and challenges the world faces now can be transformed into opportunities for global green transition," he emphasized.
Kristin Halvorsen, director of the CICERO Center for International Climate Research, also believes that crisis can create opportunities.
"The current turbulent situation places a lot of responsibility on all of us. We faced multiple crises at once," the former Norwegian finance minister said at the CCICED's opening ceremony event on June 13.
"Millions of people's access to food and energy is under threat. The result is an increased risk of conflict and instability, but crisis also creates opportunities," she said. "It's our responsibility to work together and to jointly seek solid and sustainable solutions and avoid short-term solutions that put long-term goals at risk."
#293
A special policy study from a high-level international think tank for the Chinese government has highlighted the challenges posed to the country's low-carbon transition due to its coal-dominated energy structure, saying that hasty decommissioning of coal-fired power will jeopardize energy security and may result in financial risks.
The study, Policy Measures and Implementation Pathways for the Carbon Emission Peak and Carbon Neutrality Goals, was unveiled on Wednesday on the sidelines of the annual general meeting of the China Council for International Cooperation on Environment and Development.
Coal constitutes 94 percent of the fossil fuel reserves in China. About 70 percent of the oil supply and about 40 percent of the natural gas in China is imported, according to official figures.
In the short and medium term, China's medium-to-high-speed economic development will bring about continuously rising energy demand, the study said.
The demand still needs to be partly met by coal despite this contradicting the country's rigid goal of phasing out coal and reducing carbon emissions.
"Energy security in the transition process is facing a severe test," it stressed.
It lists a series of challenges the country faces as China endeavors to phase out coal so it can peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and go carbon neutral before 2060.
China's coal-fired generator sets are generally new. In 2020, they had operated for an average of 11 years, and 75 percent of them had been in operation for less than 15 years, only half of their designed service life, it said.
Early decommissioning of these units will strand assets worth many trillions of yuan, it said, thus the work should be carried out in a gradual manner.
Wang Yi, a leading author of the study, stressed the principle of "establishing the new before abolishing the old" in the country's low-carbon transition. China needs to build up a new power system and gradually phase out coal-fired power, he explained.
The installed capacity of renewable energy power generation in the country has reached 1 billion kilowatts and is expected to go beyond 6 billion by 2060, he said. Wang is also a researcher with the Institutes of Science and Development at the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
"It needs systematic efforts to build such a huge power system dominated by renewables," he said, adding that concerted efforts, for example, are needed to simultaneously promote the development of grid, energy storage and distributed power generation in the process.
The strong connection coal has with other industrial sectors makes it even more challenging to phase out, said the study. The power generation and steel industries, for instance, consumed 2.19 billion and 730 million metric tons of coal in 2020, respectively.
The study also warned of social issues related to coal reduction.
During the 13th Five-Year Plan (2016-20) period, China phased out outdated coal production capacity by 1 billion tons, it noted. Roughly 1 million workers in the industry were laid off and reemployed in the process.
With no relevant skills, workers in the coal industry are not likely to be favorites for enterprises in other sectors. It can be difficult to get them reemployed via vocational training, the study said.
It recommended that China carry out green and low-carbon energy policies "in a reasonable and orderly manner on the premise of ensuring energy security".
China should strive to realize that the new energy demand in the country is mainly met by renewable energy, it said. The energy transition process along the entire industrial chain should be planned systematically to better coordinate with upstream and downstream industries.
#294
Electric vehicle manufacturing is emerging as one of the key sectors of the Indonesian economy, with the nation's government courting foreign investments and promoting green growth.
Indonesian President Joko Widodo met Elon Musk, co-founder and CEO of Tesla, in May to persuade the world's biggest EV maker to set up shop in Southeast Asia's largest economy.
Widodo, who currently chairs the G20-a grouping of the world's 20 major developed and developing economies-has also invited Musk to attend a summit of the bloc that will be held on the resort island of Bali in November.
Tesla is just one of the several companies that Indonesia is eyeing in its bid to develop an EV industry. In March, Hyundai opened an EV manufacturing plant in West Javathe South Korean automaker's first factory in Southeast Asia.
Indonesia has imported 30 electric buses from China, and these are now used in the capital city of Jakarta.
Analysts said that Indonesia's huge nickel and copper reserves-among the world's biggest-make the country a competitive investment destination for EV manufacturers. Nickel and copper are needed to make lithium-ion batteries that power EVs.
Indonesia has also offered several incentives to encourage investment in EV manufacturing, including tax allowances and holidays, as well as tariff cuts for imported machinery and materials used in EV production.
The state-owned Indonesia Battery Corp was created in 2021 to oversee the development of the nation's battery manufacturing industry.
Easy access to the materials used in making batteries is the lifeline of an EV manufacturer, according to Fabby Tumiwa, executive director of the Institute for Essential Services Reform, a Jakarta-based think tank.
Tumiwa said EV manufacturers want to secure the source of materials needed to produce batteries and this is why it makes sense for EV companies to invest in Indonesia.
The Singapore-based DBS Bank said the Indonesian government views the EV manufacturing industry as "pivotal, with interests spanning across the value chain-(from) downstream commodity processing to enabling battery production and encouraging domestic EV adoption".
"This will help the economy not only harness its natural strengths, but also make progress on low-carbon energy transition," DBS said, pointing to Indonesia's climate commitment. The Indonesian government has set the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 29 percent in 2030 and achieving zero carbon emission by 2060.
Apart from its resources and providing fiscal incentives, Indonesia also offers a huge consumer market for foreign EV investors.
"We have the market for EVs. Indonesia is an emerging economy with an aspirational middle-class," said Tumiwa from Jakarta-based think tank IESR.
Indonesia is the world's fourth most populous nation, home to more than 270 million people. It is classified as a lower middle-income country by the World Bank, with a gross national per capita income of $3,870.
Indonesia aims to produce 400,000 electric cars in 2025, with the figure reaching 5.7 million by 2035. To encourage local consumers to buy EVs, the country offers tax breaks and is building more charging stations.
DBS said in its report that Indonesia's goal of becoming an EV manufacturing hub will require policy support and efficient infrastructure, noting the country's decision to ban nickel exports and its plan to ban copper exports next year.
"Indonesia is expected to dominate the EV battery market by holding abundant resources within its country," DBS said.
But Indonesia's huge mineral resources could also be a source of other problems. While using EVs can help reduce emissions, the extraction of minerals needed to make batteries harms the environment and local communities, according to environmentalists.
Melky Nahar, head of campaigns at the Mining Advocacy Network, said that mining is "destructive" and has caused flooding in villages, and miners also suffer from poor working conditions.
Aulia Hakim, from the Indonesia Forum for the Environment, said people in mining communities are usually divided into two camps. The first includes those who support the mining industry as it creates more jobs in local communities, while the second is more concerned about the environmental damage caused by mining, including air pollution, the killing of fish and deforestation.
"This is a dilemma." People in the local community understand that mining is a useful source of employment, "but people also suffer from environmental damage", he added.
#295
The High Voltage Direct Current Transmission (HVDC) back-to-back project in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area has been playing a key role in promoting local low carbon development and green energy transition by ensuring sufficient steady green power in the region.
The project, which adopts the world's most advanced flexible direct current technology, was put into operation on May 25. By disintegrating a big power network into several independent smaller-area networks that could support each other, the deployment of smarter power grids can help prevent blackouts, said its operator China Southern Power Grid.
It will also better consume clean energy including wind and solar power, while solving some of the challenges faced by power networks today, including inadequate interconnections with neighboring regions and an imbalance between production and consumption, it said.
The improved power network will significantly lift power supply and power allocation capacity of the power network in Guangdong province. It is expected the province will transmit no less than 188.3 billion kilowatt-hours of power to the western regions of the country in 2022, it said.
The operator's business covers five areas in the country-Guangdong, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan provinces and the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region.
The project will allow several power grids to operate without interfering with each other while supporting each other in case of emergencies such as large-scale blackouts, said Pang Peng, general manager of the Guangdong Power Grid Company's infrastructure department.
He expects the power supply capacity in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area will increase by 80 percent when all of the HVDC projects are put into operation by the end of 2023.
According to China Southern Power Grid, the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area is where the power load is most concentrated in South China, while the Pearl River Delta region accounts for 77 percent of the total power load in Guangdong province.
On the other hand, as Guangdong has also been stepping up offshore wind power development in recent years, it will be more challenging for the local power grid network to absorb all the green but intermittent power.
As an economic powerhouse, Guangdong plans to start the construction of offshore wind farms with a total installed capacity of 12 million kilowatts during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25) and put half of them into operation by the end of 2025.
Connecting the flexible direct current back-to-back project of different regional power grids will further ensure a steady operation of the power network in Guangdong, especially when its power network now faces complex intermittent power flows caused by the transition from fossil-based fuels to zero-carbon resources, it said.
Wang Liuhuo, manager of the Guangdong Power Grid Company's infrastructure department, said as many as 200 enterprises are involved with the project in the GBA. In the power grid equipment area alone, the engineering construction will encourage the upstream and downstream supply chain up to 8 billion yuan ($1.2 billion), he said.
China Southern Grid, one of the country's two major power grids, has been stepping up the construction of smart grids in recent years, as aging infrastructure and complex intermittent power flows are making the need to modernize power grids more critical.
Using the internet of things and other technologies, smart grids provide real-time knowledge of the status of the generation-consumption balance and behavior of the grid, helping to instantly optimize available resources and flexibilities, it said.
The company vowed to invest 670 billion yuan in grid network construction during the 14th Five-Year Plan period to ensure power supply stability and boost green power consumption, which will be used in clean energy power transmission, intelligent power distribution systems and smart power consumption, to push forward the construction of a digital and modern network with new energy as the mainstay.
The planned investment in the grid network during the 14th Five-Year Plan period, which is 33 percent higher than the last plan, accounts for 48 percent of the company's total investment. It also plans to increase its percentage of non-fossil energy power generation to 60 percent by 2025 to around 100 million kW.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research firm BloombergNEF, said China's major grid network companies had been stepping up the digitalization of grid networks during the 13th Five-Year Plan period (2016-20), while he expects the transformation will further accelerate during the 2021-25 period.
The acceleration will not only ensure sufficient energy supply but also provide more green power in the energy mix of the country, leading to a robust grid-network structure and greater use of transmission channels, he said.
#296
Nation set to accelerate construction of clean energy projects in planned areas
China vows to speed up the construction of the second batch of massive wind and solar power projects in the Gobi Desert and other arid regions, according to a package of policy measures that aims to stabilize the economy announced by the State Council recently.
The second phase of wind and solar power projects will still focus on the Gobi and other sandy and rocky regions, and is expected to encourage investment of up to 3 trillion yuan ($450.9 billion) in related industries, it said.
The move comes amid the country's latest efforts to accelerate the planning and construction of large-scale wind and solar projects.
China launched its first phase comprising 100-gigawatt total wind and solar power capacity in the desert areas by the end of 2021, which covers 19 provinces nationwide, as the country has been promoting the adjustment of its industrial and energy structures.
According to a statement jointly released by the National Development and Reform Commission, China's top economic regulator, and the National Energy Administration at the end of May, the country will increase its total installed capacity of wind and solar power to over 1.2 billion kilowatts by 2030 while covering as many as 50 percent of the nation's buildings with rooftop solar panels.
As China sees its percentage of solar and wind power steadily climbing and its costs gradually decreasing in recent years, it is necessary to further develop solar and wind power facilities and ensure the two sectors play a key role in ensuring the country's energy security, to accelerate the construction of a clean, low-carbon and effective energy system.
Total renewable energy consumption will reach 1 billion tons of standard coal by 2025, according to the country's renewable energy development plan for the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25), while the scale of non-electric utilization including geothermal heating, biomass heating and fuel, as well as solar heat utilization, will also exceed 60 million tons of standard coal.
An analyst said China's plan to further optimize its energy mix by building massive wind and solar power facilities in the country's Gobi and other desert areas will facilitate the country's ambition of reaching more than 1,200 GW of installed solar and wind capacity by 2030.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research firm BloombergNEF, said renewable energy projects are usually capital-intensive and the GW-level bases that will be under construction on massive deserts will require multiple channels of financing and policy support, which China excels at.
"It is also likely that large State-owned enterprises will reallocate some funding from previous coal projects to the renewable bases so that the process can be accelerated," Wei said.
"As more batches of GW-level bases are to be constructed in the future, China will need to invite more social participation and set up a proper compensation mechanism. For example, the level of power market contracts will need to be better suited for investors to estimate their accurate cash flows."
"It is also necessary to plan and build more ultra-high voltage transmission lines for connecting the renewable energy with coastal demand centers, likely hitting 300 GW of transmission capacity by 2025 from around 200 GW last year," Wei added.
According to a statement released on Wednesday by the NDRC, China will generate 3.3 trillion kilowatt-hours of electricity from renewable energy by 2025 as part of its plan to further boost its green energy transition during the 14th Five-Year Plan period.
The increase in renewable energy generation will also exceed 50 percent during the period while power generated by wind and solar power will also double, it said.
Non-fossil energy consumption will account for around 25 percent of the total by 2030, and renewable energy will further replace fossil fuels to facilitate the country's construction of a low-carbon energy system, it said.
#297
SOE produced more than 8.4 billion kilowatt-hours of clean power since launch of first unit in 2013
The 338-megawatt lower Stung Russei Chrum hydropower station located on the Stung Russei Chrum River in Koh Kong province, Cambodia, has been playing a key role in promoting local low carbon development and green energy transition.
The project, operated and constructed by China Huadian Corp, one of the country's major State-owned power companies, has produced more than 8.4 billion kilowatt-hours of clean power since its first unit was put into operation in September 2013. The power generated accounts for more than 30 percent of the total annual power generation in Cambodia, and has helped the Southeast Asian nation secure power supply alongside steady operation of local grid networks.
With a hydropower reservoir capacity of over 401 million cubic meters, the project construction commenced in 2010 before entering into commercial operation in 2014. Power generated from the project is sold to Electricite Du Cambodge under a power purchase agreement, it said.
According to Luo Jianhua, deputy head of production and technology department of China Huadian Lower Stung Russei Chrum Hydro-Electric Project (Cambodia) Co Ltd-the Cambodian subsidiary of Huadian-hydropower, as a universally recognized clean energy resource, has a significant role to play in improving local environmental conditions while reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Cambodia.
Analysts said China's increase in renewable energy capacity at home has provided domestic energy players with valuable experience in developing projects abroad, while its cost-competitiveness along the renewable energy supply chain further boosts their presence overseas.
Investing and operating wind and solar assets in mature markets can bring valuable power market experience and know-how as China's power market is set to further liberalize in the future, said Wang Ziyue, an analyst at research firm BloombergNEF.
Due to the huge amount of construction and operational experience accumulated over the past few years, China's energy producers can grab a larger share of the global clean energy market, said Joseph Jacobelli, an energy analyst and managing partner of Asia Clean Tech Energy Investments.
"The massive amount of solar and wind capacity China commissioned in the past few years has given the nation's leading developers an unparalleled level of expertise," Jacobelli said.
Vasim Sorya, Cambodia's undersecretary of state and spokesman for the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, said these projects have provided and will continue to provide many tangible benefits for the economy and the people of Cambodia, and Belt and Road Initiative projects aim to help boost local socioeconomic development and improve people's livelihoods with no strings attached.
All BRI projects have been built in an environmentally friendly manner, he said.
The company has also been attaching significance to protecting local environments during the process of hydropower facility construction. After the power station was put into operation, it has stepped up tree planting and ecological restoration in surrounding areas to ensure the operation of the dam does not affect the local environment.
It has invested more than 1.7 million yuan ($255,304) since 2019 in restoring hillsides, which has effectively prevented potential natural disasters like mudslides.
China's policy banks have been stepping up support for overseas green energy projects in recent years.
During development and construction of the Cambodian hydroelectric project, the Export-Import Bank of China provided an exclusive loan for 70 percent of total investment of the project, while China Export & Credit Insurance Corp, commonly known as Sinosure, provided political risk insurance, said Fang Zheng, chairman of Huadian Overseas Investment Co Ltd.
"The financial agencies carried out comprehensive investment risk analysis and professional assessment, which has supported Huadian to develop clean and renewable hydroelectric resources in countries and regions participating in the Belt and Road Initiative," Fang said.
"State-owned policy banks and Sinosure remain committed to the vision of open, green and clean cooperation in implementing the BRI. They have built a complete environmental and social impact evaluation system and set up professional risk control processes, highlighting the advantages of abundant capital and strength."
Financial institutions have played an important role in helping the development of local green projects and made tangible contributions to the promotion of global environmental governance, he added.
The Cambodian subsidiary was successfully registered as a United Nations Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project in 2012 and acquired the international trading qualification of Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) of greenhouse gases, which was the first overseas CDM project developed and registered independently by China Huadian.
The power station completed its first greenhouse gas emissions reduction transaction in 2019 and has obtained 827,000 metric tons of CERs in 2020.
All the CERs signed by the project before 2020 have been sold so far, and the cumulative volume of carbon emissions trading has been 4.33 million tons. While bringing green incremental benefits to the project, it will also help Cambodia reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote ecological conservation to jointly ensure blue skies and clean water, said the company.
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202206/06/WS629d5785a310fd2b29e60d0b.html
#298
China has vowed to generate 3.3 trillion kilowatt hours of electricity from renewable energy by 2025 as part of its plan to further boost its green energy transition during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-2025).
The increase in renewable energy generation will exceed 50 percent during the period. Power generated by wind and solar power will also double, the National Development and Reform Commission, China's top economic regulator, said in a statement on Wednesday.
According to the renewable energy development plan during the 14th Five-Year Plan period, total renewable energy consumption will reach one billion tons of standard coal by 2025, while the scale of non-electric utilization including geothermal heating, biomass heating and fuel, as well as solar heat utilization, will exceed 60 million tons of standard coal.
Non-fossil energy consumption will account for around 25 percent of the total by 2030, and renewable energy will further replace fossil fuels to facilitate the country's construction of a low-carbon energy system.
#297
China will continue to accelerate the development of its solar and wind power during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25) as part of its green energy transition for carbon neutrality by 2060.
The government will increase its total installed capacity of wind and solar power to over 1.2 billion kilowatts by 2030. It will also cover as many as 50 percent of the nation's buildings with rooftop solar panels, as part of a broader clean-energy generation and storage push, according to a statement jointly released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration on Monday.
The country has made tremendous achievements in the solar and wind power sectors in recent years. Solar and wind installed capacity tops the world rankings. The percentage of solar and wind power has been steadily climbing and its cost gradually decreasing as well, according to the document.
However, issues still exist in clean energy consumption and grid access, while land resources have also been limiting clean energy development in the country, it said.
To accelerate the construction of a clean, low-carbon and effective energy system in China as it strives to have carbon dioxide emissions peak by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060, it is necessary to further develop solar and wind power facilities, to ensure the two sectors play a key role in ensuring the country's energy security, it said.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said as wind and solar farms account for more than half of new power capacity that came online in China last year, renewable energy will continue to play a key role in helping Beijing achieve its climate goals.
Luo further said the layout of end consumption plays a key role in the construction of a modern power system in China.
It is necessary to look into the demand side response while carrying out supply side reform, which will ensure a smooth green energy transition in the country, he said.
China added a record 54.9 gigawatts of solar farms last year, 14 percent more than in 2020, the National Energy Administration said earlier.
According to the statement, China will also accelerate solar and wind power generation capacity construction in the Gobi Desert and other arid regions amid efforts to boost renewable power consumption, taking advantage of the rich solar and wind resources there.
It will also further develop the potential of rooftop solar power development in the country's rural regions while encouraging distributed solar and wind projects in rural regions as well as industrial parks and buildings that qualify for such projects.
The statement also called for further enhancement of the country's power system regulation capability and flexibility. It underlined support for grid companies so they can better deal with more new energy. It also encouraged the construction of pumped storage projects to ensure efficient and effective power generation.
Pumped storage hydropower is the most common type of energy storage in use today. It saves excess power by using it to pump water from a lower reservoir to an upper one at night when electricity demand is low and then releasing it to generate power during the day when demand is high.
To meet its target for carbon emissions cuts, China will also step up financial support for the development of wind and solar power generation, including enriching green financial products and services, and strengthening support for green bonds and green loans for the new energy projects. It will also conduct further research into inclusion of new energy projects in real estate investment trusts or REITs, the statement disclosed.
#298
Environmental, supply goals back China's plan for 70 GW of capacity by 2025
China plans to give nuclear power a key role in replacing coal in the coming decades-joining green peers including wind, solar and hydropower-and this intention has been reinforced by the current global energy shortage, analysts said.
"As a power source with zero carbon emissions and firm capacity, nuclear power will continue to be important for China as it builds its renewable-centered power system into the long term," said Lara Dong, senior director of China power and renewables at information and analysis provider S&P Global Commodity Insights.
With decarbonization as one of its main goals, the nation has confirmed a target of 70 gigawatts of nuclear capacity by 2025, set in the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) documents on economic and social development and on energy, Dong said.
"It is believed China will continue to support nuclear power as an integral part of its energy supply," she said.
According to the five-year plan on energy released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration in late March, the government will raise the installed capacity for nuclear plants in operation to the 70 GW goal from 51 GW at the end of 2020, after failing to meet its previous target of 58 GW of installed capacity by 2020. Recent data from NEA show that the number had reached 54.43 GW by the first quarter this year, up 6.6 percent year-on-year.
Plans also call for promoting a consistent pace in the construction of coastal nuclear power projects with an emphasis on security.
The cost of nuclear power in coastal China is competitive with coal and about half the cost of building new nuclear units in the United States, the United Kingdom or France, according to Alex Whitworth, research director at energy and resources consultancy group Wood Mackenzie.
Whitworth said with oil and gas prices reaching record highs, a shift back to nuclear power is possible.
Prototypes of advanced reactor types like high-temperature gas-cooled reactors, fast reactors, and small modular and offshore floating reactors should be built along with increasing the digitalization of the country's energy system, according to the plan. Fast reactors use fuel efficiently by keeping neutrons moving quickly, unlike traditional reactors, which use moderators to slow down neutrons.
"We expect China to continue building and approving nuclear projects as planned during the next few years," said Dong. "We are confident China will achieve its 2025 target, barring any significant safety accident either at home or abroad."
The plan also calls for wider use of nuclear energy to heat residential and industrial areas and desalinate seawater. Two places, Haiyang, Shandong province, and Haiyan, Zhejiang province, were successful in achieving commercial nuclear heating during the 2021-22 heating season.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said China's energy plan for 2025 is part of its pledge to peak carbon by 2030 and ensure energy security.
Beijing is positioning nuclear energy as an important option to replace coal power in the coming decades. The country's energy plan highlights the need for energy supply chain security and the role of nuclear in China's green, low-carbon energy transition, he said.
Luo said this is especially important against the backdrop of the current energy shortage worldwide caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical tensions.
Many countries rekindled their interest in nuclear power after geopolitical tensions began between Russia and Ukraine, which has led to a spike in oil and gas prices that threatens to create a global energy crisis.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told nuclear industry officials in March that the government wanted the country to obtain 25 percent of its electricity from nuclear power, which would signal a significant shift in the country's energy mix. In the past few years, nuclear has produced between 15 and 20 percent of the nation's energy.
The French government also announced a plan to build up to 14 additional nuclear reactors and a fleet of smaller nuclear plants as it seeks to slash greenhouse gas emissions and cut its reliance on foreign energy. France derives about 70 percent of its electricity from nuclear energy, the highest percentage in the world.
According to Whitworth at Wood Mackenzie, China has made huge progress in localizing nuclear technology and has built a strong track record in a range of nuclear technologies with the development of its third-generation Hualong One pressurized water nuclear reactor design.
Hualong One is a Chinese reactor with full intellectual property rights. It is also one of the most widely accepted third-generation nuclear power reactors on the market, officials said.
United Kingdom regulators announced in February that Hualong One had passed the four-step Generic Design Assessment, which began in August 2017, and was authorized for use. The requirements covered a range of conditions for nuclear power plants to operate efficiently and safely.
The Chinese nuclear technology has been planned for use in a nuclear power plant in Bradwell, England, which would consist of two units with a total installed capacity of 2.4 million kilowatts. It would be the first time that Chinese technology has been used in a developed economy, according to its operator, China General Nuclear Power Corp.
China also recently completed a new Hualong One demonstration unit in Pakistan. The K3 unit of the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant, the second overseas nuclear power unit to use Hualong One technology, was put into operation on April 18, according to its operator, China National Nuclear Corp.
The company said this has further enhanced confidence regarding Hualong One's adoption in countries and regions participating in the Belt and Road Initiative. Those hopes rose in May 2021, when the first overseas nuclear power unit to use Hualong One-the K2 unit of the Karachi plant-was put into operation.
Each Hualong One unit generates approximately 9 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity per year, meeting the annual electricity demands of more than 4 million households in Pakistan. This is equivalent to reducing standard coal consumption by 3.12 million metric tons, cutting carbon dioxide emissions by 8.16 million tons, or planting more than 70 million trees, the company said.
CNNC said the Karachi nuclear plant has served as a model for global nuclear cooperation, and the company is seeking more such nuclear agreements to jointly advance the global green energy transition.
After years of development, China has risen from a novice to a pioneer in the nuclear power industry, officials said.
The first of two Hualong One prototype reactors in China, unit 5 of the Fuqing nuclear plant in Fujian province, began commercial operation in January 2021, CNNC said. The plant's unit 6, the second prototype reactor, began commercial operation in late March, marking the completion of the Hualong One demonstration in the domestic market.
This is one of the major achievements in China's nuclear power development, signaling that the country's nuclear power technology and comprehensive strength have made it among the tops globally, the company said.
But while nuclear power remains a huge priority, the amount of capacity that will be built is highly uncertain right now, according to Joseph Jacobelli, managing partner and founder of investment and advisory firm Asia Clean Tech Energy Investments.
"The National Energy Administration highlights nuclear power together with solar and wind power, and the planners are still prioritizing nuclear energy as one of the key pillars to achieving the carbon peak and carbon neutrality goals. The question is the amount of nuclear installed capacity that will exist by 2050 or 2060," he said.
"Domestic and international experts put the range at 250 GW to as high as 500 GW" in China, he said. "The reason for such a huge forecast gap is first and foremost safety."
The new generation of reactors should have a much greater safety margin than existing reactors, but they will need several years of an operational track record before their classification as safe and reliable is officially confirmed, Jacobelli said.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at BloombergNEF, said safety is the lifeline of nuclear power use, and China cannot accept or afford even one single major accident, so there is a compelling drive to minimize operational risks to ensure safety.
Mature reactors and domestic prototypes therefore have some advantages in this sense because maintenance is easier, he said.
#299
New energy generated from renewables gains more ground as private firms, SOEs up efforts
Expanding the use of "green hydrogen "will be crucial for China to reach its dual carbon goals as the future growth of power supply will mostly come from non-fossil sectors, analysts said.
The National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration jointly issued a 15-year plan to develop the hydrogen energy industry and boost the proportion of such energy generated from renewables.
The country produced some 33 million metric tons of hydrogen last year, making it the world's largest producer, and the production scale is expected to reach 43 million tons by 2030. The China Hydrogen Alliance estimated that green hydrogen will take up more in the energy mix, from 1 percent in 2019 to 10 percent by 2030, and the market scale will have increased nearly 30 times by then.
The hydrogen, mainly produced from natural gas-the current mainstream-generates massive carbon emissions and is known as "gray hydrogen". "Blue hydrogen "has its carbon emissions captured and stored, or reused, while green hydrogen is generated by renewable energy sources without producing carbon emissions.
Companies nationwide, private and State-owned, have all laid out plans for a slice of the green hydrogen market in China, either leveraging their location condition or coming up with new industrial parks to develop solar or wind power to produce green hydrogen.
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, also known as Sinopec, the world's largest refiner by volume, has already come up with four green hydrogen projects, including the 20,000 tons per year solar-based project in Kuqa, Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, 10,000 t/y wind and solar-based project in Ordos, Inner Mongolia autonomous region, 100,000 t/y renewables-based project in Ulaanqab, Inner Mongolia, and 10,000 t/y offshore wind-based project in Zhangzhou, Fujian province.
These are part of its investment plan of $4.6 billion in the hydrogen sector through 2025, aiming to boost its annual hydrogen production capacity to 500,000 tons by 2025.
State Power Investment Corp Ltd has also proposed ambitious hydrogen strategies, including its demonstration project in the Tibet autonomous region focused on using hydrogen to overcome the issue of the intermittence of renewable-based power.
Private companies are also making moves. Chinese green technology company Envision Group announced earlier that it would partner with Australian iron ore giant Fortescue Metals Group to jointly develop 10 million tons of green hydrogen by 2030.
Compared with the current rising price of natural gas, green hydrogen already has cost advantages, and Envision Group is confident it can lower the hydrogen manufacturing costs to 10 yuan ($1.52) per kilogram with the abundant green power from Inner Mongolia, said Zhang Lei, the company's CEO.
The company has built the world's first zero-carbon industrial park in the city of Ordos in Inner Mongolia to further take advantage of the abundant renewable resources and grid system there to achieve low-cost and efficient production and use of renewable energy.
Zhang said the company plans to build 100 zero-carbon industrial parks in the next 10 years with partners worldwide.
It is believed that with progress toward global carbon neutrality, the zero-carbon industrial park in Ordos will promote the development of electric vehicles and new energy industries. The cooperation with Envision would effectively lift the cost competitiveness of green hydrogen, taking advantage of its global zero-carbon industrial park layout, said Andrew Forrest, chairman of FMG.
While fossil fuels account for nearly 80 percent of hydrogen produced in China so far and that produced from renewables is still small, experts said the hydrogen energy industry will be key to China's dual carbon goals.
One main reason for the low proportion of green hydrogen applications is the high cost of hydrogen production, said Chai Maorong, chief technology officer of Hydrogen Energy Co Ltd under the State Power Investment Corp.
The cost of producing green hydrogen is three to four times that of production from fossil fuels and as much as 70 percent of the cost of hydrogen production by electrolysis of water comes from high electricity costs, Chai said.
Continuous efforts should be made in technological innovation to solve cost problems and boost the conversion efficiency of renewable resources, including wind, light and water, throughout the transition process, Chai said.
According to Ivy Yin, energy transition analyst at S&P Global Platts, China may further maximize its efforts to facilitate the production and supply of hydrogen, such as leveraging renewables in North China and Northwest China for massive wind and solar power projects, among which the first batches in the areas comprising 100 gigawatts of wind and solar energy have already launched operations.
Yin said heavy transportation, including trucking and public transit buses, is a potential market for fuel cell EVs, while hydrogen can also be transported across long distances flexibly, which is difficult for renewable energy due to the great challenges associated with inter-regional power transmission.
The development plan for such vehicles drafted by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said China aims to have 1 million hydrogen fuel cell EVs on the road by 2030, with at least 1,000 hydrogen refueling stations.
Yin said for green hydrogen to further grow its share in China's power mix to replace coal and gas, it's necessary to step up investment in infrastructure, including hydrogen transportation, storage and delivery, as well as renewable electricity generation, for it to better penetrate the market.
Some first-tier cities in China have already taken action. Beijing, for example, aims to have over 10,000 fuel cell EVs on the road and 37 hydrogen filling stations by 2025. Meanwhile, Shanghai aims to have 10,000 hydrogen cars and more than 30 hydrogen stations by 2023.
#300
The healthy development of AI can better serve the community of life for man and nature said global experts at the Symposium on Artificial Intelligence and Climate Action on April 26, 2022.
The symposium hosted by the Institute for AI International Governance of Tsinghua University, with the United Nations Development Programme as the supporting international organization, convened thought leaders and practitioners across the world.
Erik Solheim, former United Nations under-secretary-general and former executive director of the UN Environment Programme, said that climate change is one of the most urgent challenges facing humanity. "While we are on the path of going green, we are not acting fast enough and urgent enough. It is therefore crucial to step up our efforts in tackling climate issues with AI," he said.
With the rapid growth of computing power and data volume, in recent years, AI has fueled major breakthroughs with the potential to help combat the climate crisis, and far-reaching consequences for economies and societies.
Gong Ke, academic member of I-AIIG and executive director of the Chinese Institute for New Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Strategies, stressed that mitigation and adaptation are the two pathways to addressing climate change. In terms of mitigation, AI is being used as an essential tool for energy transition to improve electricity storage and optimize the deployment of renewable energy. For adaptation, AI is being successfully used to improve the resilience of infrastructure and to provide early warning," he explained.
Kameshwar Polla, distinguished professor at UC Berkeley, said that technology should be integrated with the market in order to achieve better climate outcomes. "AI can be used to predict consumer behavior, mitigate climate change with smart grids, and achieve better payment for infrastructure," he said.
Wendell Wallach, I-AIIG academic member and Carnegie-Uehiro fellow with the Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs, said there are ethical concerns about AI for climate action, and we must prevent the malicious use of AI.
During the symposium, to promote AI development to efficiently address climate change, Zeng Yi, director of International Research Center for AI Ethics and Governance at the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the chief scientist of I-AIIG, released the Principles on AI for Climate Action, which is co-sponsored by the International Research Center for AI Ethics and Governance in partnerships with I-AIIG and 10 other institutions.
As highlighted in the Principles, addressing global climate change is essential for the sustainable future of humanity and ecology. The Principles starts with a six-point proposal on values and principles: for human and ecology good; energy conservation; privacy protection; fairness and justice; promoting education, training and employment; sharing and cooperation.
Seven recommendations for AI-powered climate action are also put forward in the Principles: facilitating climate analysis and forecasting; promoting energy conservation; contributing to reducing greenhouse gas emissions; promoting greenhouse gas absorption and carbon storage; reducing the harm caused by climate change; empowering the development of energy systems; contributing to the establishment of market mechanisms and policies conducive to the control of climate change.
Christoph Lutge, academic member of I-AIIG and director of the Institute for Ethics in Artificial Intelligence at Technical University of Munich, reflected on the Principles that "AI has a tremendous potential role to play in humanity's response to climate change. In order to promote the most positive impact, AI ethics will have to be at the top of the agenda as well".
The symposium included multiple panel discussions on a wide range of topics related to AI and climate action, including how AI can empower climate action, AI and net-zero cities, and AI and sustainable energy. It attracted more than 300 registered online and offline participants and the live broadcast of the events reached 200,000 views 
#301
Investment in the green and low-carbon sector will become a growing driving force for the Chinese economy, and it is inaccurate to believe the nation's efforts in pollution control and carbon reduction will negatively impact its economic development, according to economists and industry experts.
China's transition to green and low-carbon fuels will see steady progress, and patience is needed to balance the development of new and clean energy and the phaseout of coal, they said at a recent forum on China's energy development jointly held by China News Service and the Energy Foundation China, or EFC.
"China is embracing a profound industrial revolution characterized by that in energy science and technology, which determines that the nation needs to properly handle the relations of goals and objectives of different policies on economic growth, energy security, environmental protection and climate stability," said Zou Ji, CEO and president of the EFC.
"Those policy objectives and goals can be well-coordinated, and it is especially important to coordinate short-term objectives with medium-term and long-term goals," he said.
According to Zou, as China makes economic stability a top priority and pursues progress while ensuring stability, investment in wind and solar power will further grow and fuel overall economic growth.
During the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25), the total investment will reach nearly 45 trillion yuan ($6.87 trillion) in the fields of digital upgrading and green transformation of traditional industries, green and low-carbon urbanization and modern city construction, green and low-carbon consumption, and the upgrade of power systems, according to a report by the foundation.
The investment in those fields will be around 8.9 trillion yuan per year during the period, Zou said, adding that it will add significant momentum for the total investment to grow. In 2021, China's fixed-asset investment was about 55 trillion yuan, according to the Nation Bureau of Statistics.
"By 2050, direct investment in carbon neutrality will be at least 140 trillion yuan in China, with a much greater size of non-direct investment in related fields. This investment will provide a remarkable boost for economic growth over the next 30 to 40 years," he said.
Li Junfeng, venture partner of Sequoia China and chairman of the Sequoia Institute for Carbon Neutrality, said the core nature of carbon neutrality is propelling the transition of development toward greener and more high-quality pathways, and among that, energy transition is very important.
However, energy transition, which is expected to provide ample investment opportunities to fuel economic expansion, needs to address various tasks and challenges to progress steadily, analysts said.
According to Li, the priority is controlling fossil energy consumption rather than overall energy consumption. It is advisable to make non-fossil fuels the major source of increased energy consumption and the sole source for increased power generation over the 14th FYP period, he said.
He suggested the nation control coal use so that the record coal consumption in 2013(around 4.2 billion metric tons) will remain the peak while overseeing coal-fired power generation to ensure new energy will gradually become the major power source in China.
Li also said non-fossil power capacity growth should be well-planned, especially that of wind and solar power so that the power grid could gradually get used to the transition.
Zou, with the EFC, said as nonfossil power generation technologies continue to improve in maturity and bring down costs, non-fossil energy will steadily account for an increasing share in China's power generation and that of coal will gradually downsize so that new energy will replace coal in China's power generation system as much as possible. The process will take time but will show noticeable progress every five years, he said.
According to Wang Hanfeng, chief strategist and managing director at China International Capital Corp, China has huge green investment demand, especially in sectors including electricity, transportation and construction, and the nation is paying increasing attention to green financing, including more detail-oriented environmental, social and governance criteria.
#304
Zurich-based Hitachi Energy vows to continuously push forward grid network digitalization in China to further facilitate the country's digital power grid construction, thus helping prevent possible challenges posed to the country's power systems with increasing renewable power penetration.
In the global energy transition, electricity will become the backbone of the entire energy system. Distributed energy generation from renewables must deal with the unpredictability of wind and sun, which has been increasing the complexity of the power system, said Claudio Facchin, CEO of Hitachi Energy.
To solve the problem, Hitachi Energy has been investing more in the digitalization of grids, as well as software solutions to manage assets and optimize the planning phase, the construction phase and operation and maintenance, to ensure the power system operates safely and stably while optimizing the allocation of resources on a large scale, he said during the Energy Transformation and Future Grids Forum held on April 20 in Beijing.
"Hitachi Energy will continue to invest in China and we want to enhance our cooperation with local partners and customers," Facchin said.
According to China's modern energy system plan, the share of non-fossil energy consumption in the country will increase to around 20 percent by 2025, and the proportion of non-fossil power generation will be around 39 percent by then.
With a higher penetration of renewable power gains in the country's grid network, it is necessary to integrate it smartly with other power sources and automatically deal with their intermittency, as renewable energies like solar and wind power do not consistently produce energy at all hours.
The digital power grid construction sector has attracted massive investment in China in recent years, including domestic grid operators State Grid of China and China Southern Power Grid, to continually push the boundaries of technology and innovation and Hitachi Energy has been one of the overseas technology contributors.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said the digital network is expected to be more responsive in operations, while it is also capable of detecting problems in advance with intelligent intervention.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research firm BloombergNEF, said a digital power grid that applies artificial intelligence, big data, simulation modeling and the internet of things will better facilitate the consumption of power increasingly produced by clean energy in the country.
Hitachi Energy vows to continue innovation and collaboration to drive technology and help manage the complexity brought along by increasing renewable energy in the grid in China.
"Hitachi Energy has been and will be playing a key role to push forward potential innovation of the digital area in China, focusing in terms of research and development in the grid digitalization while leveraging our competence and knowledge that we have in all parts of the world," said Facchin.
"Hitachi Energy has witnessed in China a tremendous push in innovation and technology during the past few years to help precisely strengthen the backbone and integrate bulk renewables such as offshore wind, including the high-voltage direct-current transmission, which China has been leading in the space."
According to Facchin, many of these innovations created jointly in China are now deployed and leveraged in many other parts of the world, including the Zhangbei DC-grid that has helped integrate massive amounts of renewable power in heavily populated Beijing, capable of supplying around 9 million people with clean energy.
In the future, the company will continue to fertilize across the markets, technologies and sectors to jointly develop and deploy energy and digital technologies, he said.
Zhang Jinquan, executive vice-president of Hitachi Energy, said China is not only the most important production base for Hitachi Energy worldwide but also a strategic market that has been developing rapidly.
"In the years to come, we want to continue to push forward the application and development of digitalization in the energy sector with our local partners," he said.
#302
Saudi-Chinese cooperation can help nudge climate laggards, experts say
A reaffirmation of cooperation on climate initiatives between China and Saudi Arabia can benefit neighbors in Asia and the Middle East that are lagging in their commitments, experts said.
Saudi Arabia is the largest producer in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and China has increased its demand for oil over the past decade.
Glenn Wijaya, an adviser to the Center for Indonesia-China Studies, said the climate cooperation between China and Saudi Arabia is a welcome initiative that will have a significant impact on how countries in Asia and the Middle East achieve goals set out in the Paris Agreement-the global climate change treaty adopted in 2015.
"The China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank has also adopted the Sustainable Development Bond Framework-basically helping its members to meet their commitments under the Paris Agreement and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals," Wijaya said.
In a phone call earlier this month, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud discussed strengthening the synergies between the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative and Saudi Arabia's economic diversification blueprint, Vision 2030.
Xi also asserted support for Saudi Arabia's Middle East Green Initiative, launched last year, and welcomed the Arab nation's participation in the Global Development Initiative, unveiled by Xi at the UN General Assembly in September.
"The changing global geopolitical dynamics will bring (Saudi Arabia) closer to China in a wide range of climate change-related sectors," said Salman Zafar, founder of EcoMENA, an environmental think tank in Doha, Qatar.
The Saudi-Chinese climate cooperation is based primarily on investments and technology transfer in the solar energy sector, he said, citing the partnership between Saudi Arabia's ACWA Power and China's Silk Road Fund, an infrastructure investment fund.
In 2019, the Silk Road Fund signed an agreement to purchase a 49 percent stake in Saudi Arabian company ACWA Power, whose development portfolio includes a number of renewable energy projects.
Zafar also notes oil producer Saudi Aramco's close cooperation with China on hydrogen energy, which is "definitely going to speed up" Saudi Arabia's energy transition.
According to the Green Future Index 2022, countries that made progress on building a green future were mostly developed nations.
At least 16 European countries made it to the top 20. China, which leapt to 26th place from 45th in 2021, was recognized for making notable gains in greening its society.
Slower progress
However, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates-ranked 51 and 41, respectively-are among a group the index labeled as "climate laggards" for making "slow or uneven progress or commitment "toward building a green future. Others in this group include Vietnam, Pakistan, Australia and Thailand.
The "climate abstainers" category-for countries that will be "left behind in the green future "through lack of progress and commitment-includes countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia, Turkey, Qatar and Argentina.
"The Green Future Index 2022 highlights that certain countries, such as Indonesia (which is) heavily reliant on foreign investment, particularly in this trailing far behind in terms of implementing green policies," said Wijaya.
"Many developed countries in the West are undeniably investors in projects in countries that are regarded as laggards."

#303
An innovation alliance for new type power system was launched to better facilitate the country's green energy transition and the nation's ambition to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060 in Beijing on Friday.
Consisting of 31 entities, including grid operators, power generation companies, petroleum and chemical companies as well as universities and institutions, the alliance will focus on the development path, technological breakthrough as well as demonstration projects related to the construction of a new power system in China with increasing renewable power penetration.
Members of the alliance include many of the country's traditional energy behemoths-such as State Grid Corp of China, China National Petroleum Corp, China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, and State Power Investment Corp.
In the global energy transition, power will become the backbone of the entire energy system. The distributed energy generation from the renewables, for example the unpredictability of wind and sun, has made the power system more complex.
A company official said the alliance will further boost the high-quality development of the country's energy and power sector.
The alliance will step up the power system's transition while ensuring a steady and secure operation of the nation's industrial chain, said Xin Baoan, chairman of State Grid Corp of China.
The alliance will also further lift the competitiveness of the country's energy and power industry though breakthroughs in key technologies, stimulating innovation and joint efforts to tackle key problems, he said.
In the future, the alliance will mainly focus on the construction of new energy storage, the green energy production and utilization, power and carbon market as well as power demand response, it said.
#304
Six reactors approved for launch in three cities to support clean energy transition
With the future power supply growth coming mostly from nonfossil energy in China as the country is going through a green energy transition, nuclear power will be crucial for China to reach its carbon peak goal by 2030, said analysts.
After years of preparations, comprehensive assessment and review, approval has been granted for projects of new nuclear power units identified in national plans in Sanmen, Zhejiang province, Haiyang, Shandong province, and Lufeng, Guangdong province, according to a decision made at the State Council's executive meeting chaired by Premier Li Keqiang on Wednesday.
All six units, two for each site, will adopt third-generation nuclear technologies, and this is the first time that China has approved six units at one time since 2008, which illustrates the government's determination to steadily develop nuclear power under the premise of security, said an analyst.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said nuclear power, together with clean coal and gas power, will play a crucial role in ensuring the stability and consistency of a new power system dominated by new energy in the country.
"As a non-fossil energy, nuclear power has further illustrated its strategic importance in the country's energy mix since last year's energy shortage impact," he said.
"While European countries are already shifting from banning nuclear energy to restarting it and China is also actively developing wind, solar and hydropower on a large scale, there is substantial room for nuclear power in the years to come on the global stage."
Luo believes China will continue to support nuclear energy as an integral part of its energy supply and as the policy direction has been leaning towards nuclear power, the sector is likely to embrace a strategic development period in the years to come.
According to the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) on the country's energy system released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration in March, the government vows to step up the installed capacity for nuclear power plants in operation to 70 gigawatts by 2025, up from 51 GW at the end of 2020.
The country vows to actively promote the construction and rational deployment of coastal nuclear power projects with an emphasis on security and maintenance of a stable construction pace.
The plan also calls for wider promotion of the use of nuclear energy to heat residential and industrial areas and desalinate seawater, after two cities in China-Haiyang, Shandong province and Haiyan, Zhejiang province-have already successfully achieved commercial nuclear heating during the 2021-2022 heating season.
Demonstration projects of advanced reactor types including high-temperature gas-cooled reactors, fast reactors, modular small reactors and offshore floating reactors should be conducted, while the country should also step up the digitalization of the country's energy system, according to the plan.
China is already the second-largest worldwide in terms of nuclear-installed capacity and generation capacity while it has also become a pioneer in the global nuclear sector with advanced nuclear chain advantages after years of development, said Luo.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research firm Bloomberg-NEF, said China's approval of the six new reactors in three sites will boost the local economy, given a large sum of new investments.
Estimates from Yicai.com reveal that the total investment for each third-generation nuclear unit is around 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) and the six units are expected to have a total investment of 120 billion yuan.
"Four of them will adopt CAP1000, a Chinese version of US-imported technology, which helps drive upstream industries and research in China," said Wei.
"Another two reactors in Lufeng will adopt China's third-generation nuclear reactor technology Hualong One. This site's units were formerly designed for imported technology from the United States, but it was delayed for over a decade and Guangdong stakeholders eventually decided to move on with China's own prototype."
Hualong One is China's third-generation nuclear power technology with full intellectual property rights. It is one of the most widely accepted third-generation nuclear power reactors in the current global market.
#305
Fast-growing field creating more effective, economical, cleaner system
The digital energy industry, which combines digital technology with power electronics technology, is poised to witness rapid growth in the next decade, industry experts said.
With the acceleration of digital transformation, digital technologies represented by 5G, big data and artificial intelligence are speeding up their integration with traditional industries. They are playing an increasingly important role in saving energy, reducing carbon emissions and helping achieve the nation's carbon peak and neutrality goals, they added.
That brings into play the field of power electronics, which uses the principles of electronics-usually employed to transmit signals in low-power devices-at a much higher power level.
Technology companies such as ZTE Corp, Huawei Technologies Co and Foxconn Industrial Internet are making forays into the digital energy field by setting up independent departments or subsidiaries. The emphasis is on leveraging innovative technologies to accelerate the digital transformation of energy.
Chinese telecom equipment maker ZTE Corp has accelerated its business expansion into the lucrative segment, establishing a digital energy department in December.
The dependence on traditional fossil energy has become a main bottleneck hindering the development of the energy industry, said Yu Yifang, senior vice-president of ZTE and general manager of its digital energy product operation department.
"The essence of carbon neutrality is to promote the transformation of the energy structure towards low-carbon, electrification and digitalization," Yu said. The proportion of new energy power generation is expected to increase significantly, and energy digitalization will progressively lower the dependence on fossil fuels by driving technological innovation, Yu added.
ZTE will integrate its products and capacities in power, energy storage, data centers and energy management to promote digitalization of the energy industry, the company said.
Its zero-carbon energy network enables seamless energy management and scheduling, from power generation to the power consumption of the entire energy power supply chain. Lithium-ion batteries, solar energy, power distribution and transformation, and thermal control technologies have been applied in the energy network to improve energy efficiency and enhance power supply reliability.
#306
The K-3 Unit of the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant in Pakistan-the second overseas nuclear power unit to use China's third-generation nuclear reactor technology Hualong One-was put into operation on Monday, said its operator China National Nuclear Corp.
Marking the completion of China's Hualong One project in the overseas market, the operation of the plant has further enhanced the confidence for Hualong One in countries and regions participating in the Belt and Road Initiative, CNNC said.
Hualong One is China's third-generation nuclear power technology with full intellectual property rights. It is one of the most widely accepted third-generation nuclear power reactors in the current global market.
Constructed by the China Zhongyuan Engineering Corp, a subsidiary under CNNC, the K-2 and K-3 units of the Karachi plant illustrated the strategic partnership between China and Pakistan with its stable, green and low-carbon energy supplies to Pakistan, CNNC said.
Put into operation in May, the K-2 unit is the first overseas nuclear power unit to use Hualong One.
Each Hualong One unit generates approximately 9 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity per year, meeting the annual electricity demands of more than 4 million households in Pakistan. This is equivalent to reducing standard coal consumption by 3.12 million metric tons, cutting carbon dioxide emissions by 8.16 million tons, or planting more than 70 million trees, the company said.
The construction of the projects has boosted the development of Pakistan's economy and relevant Pakistani industries, while it also constitutes a significant part of Pakistan's efforts to optimize its energy mix, and its global effort to achieve carbon peak and carbon neutrality, and address climate change, it added.
After years of development, China has risen from a novice to a pioneer in the global nuclear power industry, experts said.
Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said China has been moving away from imports of nuclear power technology in recent years to the acceleration of local adoption, which in turn will help export Hualong One to more countries.
"The construction of the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant has witnessed the ever-deepening of the strategic cooperation between China and Pakistan, serving as a model for global nuclear cooperation," said Gu Jun, general manager of CNNC.
The project has helped boost the nuclear industry in Pakistan while playing a key role in improving local livelihoods and green energy transition, Gu said.
#307
More practical and scalable carbon reduction solutions, better funding and regulatory mechanisms, and greater international cooperation are key for China to achieve its carbon dioxide emission peak and carbon neutrality goals, experts have said.
By the end of last year, 136 countries had issued carbon emission goals.
International investment for energy transition hit a record high of $755 billion last year, but the world also has a $700 billion annual financing gap in global biodiversity conservation by 2030, said Jerry Yu, chief representative of the Paulson Institute's Beijing office. The institute is a think tank that focuses on the China-US relationship.
"This urgently requires the private sector and other market forces to keep promoting innovation and change," he said.
With China being the world's second largest economy and a nation with rich biodiversity, its innovative solutions for going green will serve as an important facilitator and reference for the world to fulfill its sustainable development goals, Yu said.
The remarks were made during the launch ceremony of the Paulson Prize for Sustainability 2022 on Friday. Since 2017, the institute and Tsinghua University have cooperated to offer this annual award to projects in China that provide innovative, scalable and market-based solutions to sustainability challenges such as climate change and biodiversity loss. The award is open for submissions until June 30.
Tracy Wolstencroft, co-chairman of the prize's jury committee and former president of the National Geographic Society, said that climate change is both a challenge and an opportunity for the current generation as humanity embarks on the largest socioeconomic transformation in history to achieve a more sustainable future.
This process will drastically change how society makes products, grows food, travels and adapts to a warmer world, he said. "We are at a pivotal time during the transition to a low carbon economy, where capital, technology and policy all must align to enable growth in green initiatives and industries at a significant pace and scale."
Zhuang Weimin, president and chief architect of the Architectural Design and Research Institute of Tsinghua University, said China has only 30 years to go from a carbon peak to carbon neutrality, which is a very tight time frame considering developed countries generally have over half a century to do so.
In the field of construction, which is a major carbon emitter for China, it is important to learn green technologies from other countries, but it is also imperative to adopt these technologies and designs in accordance with China's situations and needs, he said.
For instance, the average age of Chinese buildings is less than 40 years old, which is far lower than that of developed countries, many of which have buildings that have lasted over a century, he said.
Therefore, China should avoid the mass demolition and reconstruction of its buildings, which may increase carbon emissions, he said. Instead, local governments should issue administrative regulations about building demolition while encouraging research and innovation to retrofit existing structures to be more environmentally friendly.
Ma Keping, deputy director-general of the Biodiversity Committee of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, said China's vision of building an ecological civilization, which stresses the harmonious coexistence of humanity and nature, is in line with the shared aspiration of the United Nation's Biodiversity Conference.
But implementing these ambitious goals will require a great effort, he said. Moreover, it will be necessary to effectively finance these projects, to create mechanisms to regulate and evaluate these undertakings, and to encourage the public and private sectors to work together toward these goals.
Jiang Li, chairman of Nanjing TICA Climate Solutions, a company that utilizes thermal energy, said sustainability can be part of a company's competitive advantage.
To meet the two carbon goals, it is important to create a third-party credibility system that can track how much energy a company conserves so that experts can intuitively see the cost of energy usage and optimize it, he added.
#308
New German legislation promises to expedite the country's green energy transition by doubling renewable power capacity over the next eight years, and achieving 100 percent green electricity supply by 2035.
The nation's federal government has submitted a draft of its so-called Easter Package, which is a bundle of legislative measures aimed at developing renewables, including reforms to the country's Renewable Energy Sources Act and its Offshore Wind Energy Act.
The Ukraine crisis has added extra impetus to the renewable energy transition, since Germany burns natural gas for around 15 percent of its electricity, with Russia as its main supplier.
Finance Minister Christian Lindner recently referred to renewable power as "freedom energy".
Highlighting the need for reform, German Vice-Chancellor Robert Habeck said at a news conference that the "climate crisis is coming to a head" and that the conflict in Ukraine "shows how important it is to phase out fossil fuels and promote the expansion of renewables".
The new legislation aims to increase the share of renewables in Germany's energy mix from around 42 percent in 2021 to 80 percent in 2030. The package also commits Germany to sourcing all of its electricity from renewables by 2035. Previously, the German government had said this would be achieved "before 2040".
Wind energy will play a large part in the transition, with the aim of reaching 30 gigawatts of installed offshore wind capacity by 2030, and at least 70 gigawatts by 2045.
Onshore wind capacity is set to reach 115 gigawatts in 2030, according to the new legislation, compared to the current 56 gigawatts.
Germany currently has around 7.7 gigawatts of installed offshore wind capacity, in third place behind the United Kingdom and China, though development has slowed in recent years.
The nation added 219 megawatts of offshore wind power in 2020, with no offshore wind turbines added last year. Germany also issued fewer onshore wind permits in the first quarter of this year than in the same period last year.
The package was largely welcomed by green energy industry players and environmentalists.
#309
New legislation aims to increase share of renewables to 80 percent by 2030
New German legislation promises to expedite the country's green-energy transition, by doubling renewable power capacity during the next eight years, and achieving 100-percent green electricity supply by 2035.
The nation's federal government has submitted a draft of its so-called Easter Package, which is a bundle of legislative measures aimed at developing renewables, including reforms to the country's Renewable Energy Act and its Off shore Wind Law.
The crisis in Ukraine has added extra impetus to the renewable energy transition, since Germany burns natural gas for around 15 percent of its electricity, with Russia the main supplier.
Finance Minister Christian Lindner recently referred to renewable power as "freedom energy".
Highlighting the need for reform, Germany's economy minister, Robert Habeck, said at a news conference the "climate crisis is coming to a head" and that the conflict in Ukraine "shows how important it is to phase out fossil fuels and promote the expansion of renewables".
The new legislation aims to increase the share of renewables in Germany's energy mix, from around 42 percent in 2021 to 80 percent in 2030. The package also commits Germany to sourcing all of its electricity from renewables by 2035. Previously, the German government had said this would be achieved "before 2040".
Wind energy will play a large part in the transition, with the aim of reaching 30 gigawatts of installed off shore wind capacity by 2030, and at least 70 gigawatts by 2045.
Onshore wind capacity is set to reach 115 gigawatts in 2030, according to the new legislation, compared to the current 56 gigawatts.
Germany currently has around 7.7 gigawatts of installed off shore wind capacity, in third place behind the United Kingdom and China, though development has slowed in recent years.
The nation added 219 megawatts of offshore wind power in 2020, and no off shore wind turbines last year. Germany also issued fewer onshore wind permits in the first quarter of this year than in the same period last year.
Habeck, the economy minister, told reporters on Tuesday this low growth in the wind power sector is at odds with the proposed reforms in the Easter Package.
"We want to change that," he said. "It is unsatisfactory."
The package was largely welcomed by green-energy industry players and environmentalists.
Jurgen Zeschky, chief executive of ENERCON, a German supplier of wind energy converters, said his company would "support this undertaking to the best of our abilities".
"After years of a slumping market, a wind energy renaissance in Germany is finally in sight, which makes us very glad," Zeschky said.
Reenie Vietheer, an energy specialist for environmental campaign group Greenpeace Germany, said the Easter Package was "more decisive than anything we've seen on it in recent years".
"If essential points are added to the draft, the expansion of renewables can pick up at the necessary pace," Vietheer said.
#310
Company aims to be leading partner to support transition to net-zero carbon transportation
Battery producer Envision AESC is planning to accelerate its expansion in developed markets, including the United States and Europe, as part of its plan to increase its global market share and prepare for an anticipated boom in sales of new energy vehicles.
Envision AESC, the battery-producing arm of Shanghai-based world-leading green technology company Envision Group, said on March 16 it will build a new plant in the US to provide battery modules for Mercedes' production of all-electric EQ vehicles in the state of Alabama.
The plant will be operational in 2025 and will be a major supplier securing capacity for next generation Mercedes-EQ products built in the US in the years to come, said Mercedes-Benz Chief Technology Officer Markus Schaefer.
Mercedes, which plans to produce batteries in Europe, North America and Asia, aims to have eight cell factories with partners around the world with 200 gigawatt-hours of battery production capacity a year by the end of the decade, Reuters reported.
The move is a significant step forward in the company's mission to be a leading technology partner to support the global transition to net-zero carbon transportation, said Zhang Lei, CEO of Envision Group and executive chairman of Envision AESC.
"Our planned investment in a new gigafactory will form part of an ecosystem in the region, aimed at growing the local supply chain and developing whole life cycle opportunities of batteries. Our ambition is to develop advanced technology, future innovations and integrated net-zero solutions," Zhang said.
The company did not disclose locations or the amount of investment it will involve.
The new Envision AESC gigafactory in the US follows the company's confirmation in 2021 of plans to build gigafactories in France, Japan and the United Kingdom.
The company announced in 2021 it will build a $2.4 billion battery plant to supply French carmaker Renault in northern France, and invest 423 million pounds ($552.8 million) to build a gigafactory at the Sunderland manufacturing site in the UK, a move to expand its presence in Europe as the continent ramps up production to achieve battery independence.
By 2030, the company will achieve an annual production capacity of 24 GWh and has the potential to expand capacity by 40 GWh in Douai, France. It also pledged to create 1,000 local jobs by 2024 and 2,500 by the end of the decade. It said the investment in France will make its battery factory the first gigafactory in the country.
The company's expansion into France was in consideration of the country's economic scale, continuous investment in the green revolution and Sino-French economic ties.
Envision AESC has so far unveiled plans to build 10 plants in countries including China, Japan, the US, the UK and France, with the combined production capacity to reach 300 GWh by 2025.
With 2,500 employees, the company has produced power batteries for more than 600,000 electric vehicles in 44 countries over the past 12 years, with zero accidents, it said.
Analysts said major Chinese makers of EV-use lithium batteries have been setting up plants in Europe and the US in recent years.
BloombergNEF, a research provider covering global commodity markets, said China has dominated the global lithium-ion battery supply chain, with control of around 80 percent of the world's raw material refining, and the country will continue to dominate the supply chain through 2025.
China dominated BloombergNEF's second annual "Global Lithium-Ion Battery Supply Chain Ranking" released last year as well as its projection for 2026, thanks to continued investment and strong local and global demand for its lithium-ion batteries.
China had 80 percent of all global battery cell manufacturing capacity last year, with capacity expected to more than double to over two terawatt-hours, enough capacity for more than 20 million electric vehicles in the next five years, it said.
China's dominance of the industry is to be expected, given its huge investments and policies the nation has implemented over the past decade, said James Frith, BloombergNEF's head of energy storage, adding the next decade will be particularly interesting as Europe and the US try to create their own battery champions to challenge Asian incumbents already building capacity in both places.
Envision Group started its global journey by designing, selling and operating smart wind turbines and smart storage systems. In 2021, Envision Energy also ranked first in terms of the number of bids for wind power projects in the Chinese mainland.
The company announced it is committed to becoming carbon-neutral in its operations by 2022 and achieving carbon neutrality in its entire value chain by 2028. China's corresponding goals are to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.
Since its first smart wind turbine began to generate clean electricity in 2008, the company has put more than 12,500 wind turbines into operation, with a cumulative output of more than 150,000 GWh of clean electricity, cutting emissions by the equivalent of 100 million metric tons of carbon dioxide by April 2021, it said.
The company has been exporting offshore and onshore smart wind turbines to countries including Argentina, France, India, Kazakhstan, Mexico and Indonesia to support their green energy transition. It has established engineering centers and research and development facilities in the US, Germany, Denmark, Singapore and Japan.
Envision alone commissioned more than 10 GW in 2020, as those facilities abroad reached 0.28 GW with exports to countries such as France, Mexico and Argentina.
#311
China has vowed high-quality development of the country's petrochemical and chemical industries during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25), eyeing to extend its petrochemical industry chain with its rate of capacity utilization for bulk chemical products exceeding 80 percent by 2025.
The government will also come up with 30 smart manufacturing demonstration plants and 50 smart chemical demonstration parks, as the country is on its way to a green energy transition.
China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology has launched a set of guidelines recently for the development of the petrochemical industry, part of its efforts to promote refining and production to reduce the output of refined oil products and increase chemical products to extend the petrochemical industry chain, said Xinhua News Agency.
China's petrochemical industry will follow a high-quality development pattern featuring a strong independent innovation capability, with a reasonable structural layout that is green, safe, and low-carbon, it said.
The country will also strictly control new capacity in its oil refining industry and will accelerate the elimination of inefficient and outdated production.
The ministry also urged refineries to adopt better technologies to reduce emissions as China, the world's second-largest economy, has vowed to continue improving air quality while meeting climate change pledges.
According to Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, the high-quality development and the upgrade of petrochemical and chemical industry products has a significant role in the country's manufacturing quality improvement.
The petrochemical and chemical industries, with an improved layout and the application of new technologies, will further promote the country's economic and social development, he said.
According to industry insiders, innovation and integrated innovation capabilities in the industry will continue to be enhanced. By 2025, research and development investment of enterprises above designated size will account for more than 1.5 percent of the main business income.
According to a five-year plan on energy conservation and emission reduction released by the State Council, China will appropriately control its total energy consumption and cut it by 13.5 percent per unit of gross domestic product by 2025 compared with 2020 to lay a solid foundation to achieve carbon neutrality.
#312
Low-carbon growth model can speed up clean energy shift in region, experts say
China's pursuit of low-carbon economic growth can influence other Asian countries to follow the same path, helping the global fight against climate change, experts said.
Premier Li Keqiang, who delivered the Government Work Report at the opening of the 13th National People's Congress in Beijing this month, said China will continue to target peak carbon emissions, develop green and low-carbon technologies and curb projects that produce large carbon emissions.
Environmental experts said China's leadership is much needed as increased heat waves, droughts and floods caused by climate change have killed millions worldwide and remain a global threat. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said in its latest report that these extreme weather events are "occurring simultaneously, causing cascading impacts that are increasingly difficult to manage" and have exposed millions of people to acute food and water insecurity.
"There is no better time than now (for China) to lead the charge toward low-carbon development, especially with the recent release of the latest IPCC report which highlights the need for governments to act with urgency and ambition to mitigate emissions as well as to put in place encompassing adaptation measures," said Cesar Carlito Baclagon, regional finance campaigner of 350.org, an international environmental group.
Baclagon applauded China's aim of working toward carbon neutrality and said he hoped this will jump-start the transition to renewable energy sources, increase climate adaptation funds and usher in low-carbon development in Asia.
John Wang, vice-president and senior analyst for environmental, social and corporate governance at Moody's Investors Service, said: "China's continued effort to drive green development and decarbonization will benefit other Asian economies and support their low-carbon growth."
Xie Chunping, policy fellow at the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics and Political Science, said China is at the forefront of the development of new low-carbon technologies and its transformation into a low-carbon economy will likely set an example for other countries.
China has announced that it would aim to peak its carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.
To meet these goals, China has shuttered a number of high-polluting and high energy-consuming factories, promoted the development of high-tech industries and encouraged the use of electric vehicles. This policy has reduced both energy intensity and the use of coal as a fuel source in China. Energy intensity dropped 28.7 percent in 2020 compared with 2011, while the proportion of coal in total energy consumption fell from 69.2 percent in 2010 to 56.8 percent in 2020, according to Xinhua News Agency.
The International Energy Agency said China is a "clean energy powerhouse" and has made "notable progress" in its clean energy transition. China leads the global growth in electric car markets, with sales nearly tripling to 3.4 million units in 2021. Renewable energy capacity has also increased. Installed capacity of wind and solar energy reached about 540 gigawatts in 2020. China invested about $130 billion in clean energy technology in 2020.
Xie said China's investment in its low-carbon transition could drive down the cost of clean technology further and lead to a positive spillover effect in other countries.
This is already happening in the case of solar energy. The IEA said that most solar photovoltaic (PV) panels were manufactured in China. China is also the global manufacturing hub of other clean energy technologies-accounting for over 70 percent of global battery manufacturing capacity and nearly 80 percent of PV cells.
"(China) could have a great deal to gain by being in the vanguard of the new global growth story driven by the stimulus of higher investment in renewables and energy efficiency,"Xie said.
#313
Shell Plc announced strategic cooperation with BYD on Thursday to help accelerate China's energy transition and improve charging experience of BYD customers who use battery-powered electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids in the fast-expanding new energy vehicle sector.
The partnership will start in China and Europe before extending to other regions, Shell said.
Market observers said the Shell-BYD tie-up confirms China's status as a leading center of EV production and sales, which is attracting more international players to its rapidly growing EV charging sector.
Shell and BYD said they intend to form a joint venture to develop EV charging networks in China. They have charted a plan to operate first a network of more than 10,000 charging points in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, in the near future. The network will be further expanded to more locations nationwide, Shell said.
Shell and BYD will collaborate on global research and development in areas like battery performance and advanced charging. Shell will also offer BYD's private and commercial customers membership access to 275,000 charging points through Shell roaming network.
Shell and BYD will also jointly develop depot charging services for BYD customers in Europe.
According to the Shell-BYD agreement, both companies will seek to provide integrated home energy solutions such as dynamic tariff scheduling, solar integration, home batteries, vehicle-to-grid charging in different regions worldwide.
Both parties will explore opportunities to build Shell-BYD EV hubs in key European markets, providing customers with the experience of BYD premium designs and advanced new energy vehicle technologies, as well as seamless charging and digital services jointly developed by both parties for greater user experience.
China boasts sales of more than 3.5 million electric models and plug-in hybrids in 2021, up about 160 percent from 2020. "New infrastructure" like EV charging networks will be much needed, Shell said.
"We are glad to collaborate with BYD to explore opportunities in expanding EV charging network in China and continuously improve charging experience for EV customers," said Jason Wong, executive chairman of Shell in China.
"By working with more partners collectively, we will be able to build an ecosystem to accelerate the energy transition and make contributions to China's ambition to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060."
Shell operates some 1,900 service stations in China. More than 2,300 public EV charging points are installed at its stations and dedicated EV Mobility Hubs.
Global oil and gas giants have been saying they are keen to invest in China's EV industry. For instance, TotalEnergies brought its electric charging services into China with the launch of its first stand-alone EV charging station in Wuhan, Hubei province, in 2020.
In 2021, TotalEnergies and China Three Gorges Corp established a JV to develop EV high power charging infrastructure and services within Hubei province, through the installation and operation of more than 11,000 high-power charge points by 2025.
Domestic oil giants, including China National Petroleum Corp and China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, have also been finalizing plans to tap into the domestic EV charging station sector.

With foreign players' market shares expected to rise in the coming years, not only automakers but also energy giants are all actively rolling out plans to grab a slice of China's EV pie, analysts said.
With the number of new energy vehicles increasing, the construction of charging stations and piles has become necessary, said Liu Yongdong, deputy secretary of the China Electricity Council.
Traditional energy companies' entry into the NEV sector is natural as end use of energy relies more on electricity generated from new energy sources rather than oil, Liu said.
As the auto industry is undergoing significant centurial changes with the development of NEVs being an irresistible trend, BYD will ramp up efforts to seize more opportunities in the sector, and provide consumers with high-quality services in charging facilities and NEV consumption experience, said Wang Chuanfu, chairman BYD.
#314
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said the world is "sleepwalking to climate catastrophe" because of slow action on emissions and a continued reliance on fossil fuels.
Guterres said that the Paris Agreement goal of capping global warming at 1.5 degrees Celsius is "on life support", and called out leaders in rich countries for shifting blame onto emerging economies, and vice-versa.
The UN chief also said that the response to the Ukraine conflict has exacerbated the climate crisis, as major economies pursue strategies to replace Russian fossil fuels, resulting in "short-term measures" creating "long-term fossil fuel dependence".
"This is madness," Guterres told the Economist Sustainability Summit in London. "Addiction to fossil fuels is mutually assured destruction."
Guterres said that some progress was made at the UN climate change conference COP26 in Glasgow last November, including agreements to end deforestation, reduce methane emissions and mobilize private finance.
"But the main problem was not solved," he said. "It was not even properly addressed, and that problem is the enormous emissions gap."
Experts estimate that limiting warming at 1.5 degrees will require a 45 percent reduction in global emissions by 2030, and carbon neutrality by mid-century. Guterres said that current national commitments for reductions will lead to a 14 percent increase in emissions during the 2020s.
"That problem was not solved in Glasgow. In fact, the problem is getting worse," he said.
Guterres also addressed a common cause of conflict during negotiations at COP26, where rich nations pointed to high emissions in emerging economies that are still undergoing industrialization, while developing nations focused on the historical emissions burden of developed regions.
"If this goes on, there are no winners in a blame game," Guterres said. "We can't point fingers while the planet burns."
Guterres advocated the formation of coalitions to provide major emerging economies with resources and technology to accelerate their transition from coal to renewable energy.
He said that such an effort was underway in South Africa, which is among the most coal-dependent nations in the G20 group of economies. In November, the United States, the European Union and the United Kingdom announced the International Just Energy Transition Partnership, through which partner countries will support decarbonization in South Africa.
"And the pieces are coming into place for coalitions in Indonesia, Vietnam and elsewhere," said Guterres, who also singled out the 2021 commitment by China to cease investment in overseas coal projects as a positive development.
Guterres made his comments days after scientists confirmed record-breaking temperatures in parts of the Antarctic.
"East Antarctica, the coldest place on Earth, is experiencing an incredible heatwave unlike any ever observed," said Renato Colucci, a climatologist at Severe Weather Europe.
Temperatures at Concordia Research Station on the southern continent reached minus 12.2 degrees Celsius on Friday, the highest temperature since records began, and about 40 degrees Celsius above average for this time of year.
#318
State Grid Corp of China started construction of two pumped storage projects on Thursday in Zhejiang and Jiangxi provinces to push forward the country's green energy transition.
The two projects -- Taishun pumped storage project in Zhejiang and Fengxin pumped storage project in Jiangxi -- have a combined total installed capacity of 2.4 million kilowatts. With total investment of more than 14.77 billion yuan ($2.33 billion), the two projects are expected to be put into operation by 2030, said the company.
Pumped storage hydropower is the most common type of energy storage in use today. It saves excess power by using it to pump water from a lower reservoir to an upper one at night when electricity demand is low and releasing it to generate power during the day when demand is high.
State Grid, the largest power provider in the country, said it constructed 23 pumped storage hydropower stations during the 13th Five-Year-Plan period (2016-20) with a total installed capacity of 30.93 million kW and a total investment of almost 180 billion yuan.
As many as seven pumped storage projects are already in operation with a total installed capacity of 7.65 million kW, it said.
#315
AVEVA Inc, a developer of software for industrial companies, vowed to strengthen its presence in China, helping the country decarbonize its energy industry with digital operations, a company official said.
The company is a global leader in industrial software and aims to drive the digital transformation of more Chinese industrial organizations by managing complex operational processes in the future, Wan Shiping, general manager of AVEVA in China, said in an interview in Beijing.
"We aim to connect the power of information and artificial intelligence with human insight, to enable faster and more precise decisionmaking for the country's energy behemoths, helping industries to boost operational delivery and sustainability," Wan said.
The company has been actively cooperating with Chinese companies, mostly State-owned enterprises, including China Three Gorges Corp and China General Nuclear Power Corp.
Its cooperation with China Three Gorges Corp, for example, will make sure the company can solve its engineering digitization and intelligent transformation in the next 10 years as it deploys its digital transformation, Wan said.
He added the next five years are crucial for the Cambridge-headquartered company in China, when the country will go through green energy transition as clean energy including solar, wind and hydrogen plays a bigger role in the country's energy mix.
AVEVA pledged to further facilitate the country's energy transition by enabling project operation on-time and on-budget by using its advantages in industrial software, while eliminating value leaks, increasing operational efficiency and maximizing collaboration, he said.
Wan said they are looking forward to more cooperation with Chinese industrial companies to uncover opportunities at home and abroad, especially in the new energy sector.
AVEVA's portfolio of power generation solutions enables industry operators to overcome the challenges associated with renewable generation, including intermittency, electric grid stability and other economic factors, and ensure a clean, greener future, he said.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said while renewable energy is the fastest-growing energy source in the country, it is less reliable compared with fossil fuels, as the world can be dark at any given time and wind does not blow regularly, creating similar intermittency issues.
The intermittent nature of most renewable energy requires energy storage, the cost of which can negatively affect the return on renewable generation investment, he said.
However, advances in battery technology, software and electric grid integration methods are making energy storage more reliable and affordable, Wan said.
As technology adoption increases and future advancements are made, the industry is poised to overcome current storage challenges, he said.
Cloud-enabled operational data management, combined with software that spans design, engineering and operations, asset performance, monitoring and control solutions, will deliver proven business value and outcomes for the company's partners in China, he said.
"Supported by the largest industrial software ecosystem, including 5,500 partners and 5,700 certified developers, we aim to help further facilitate China with its energy transition."
#316
Carbon capture, utilization and storage key to nation's low-carbon transition
Industry insiders such as Ma Yongsheng, president of China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, or Sinopec, have called for more preferential policies to develop carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) technology to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the energy sector as China is going through its low-carbon transition.
China should strive to make core technological breakthroughs in CCUS while pushing forward industrial chain demonstration and commercial application of the technology to put the country on the path to carbon neutrality by 2060, said Ma from Sinopec, the world's top refiner by capacity.
He urged the country to step up the network layout and cluster infrastructure construction, while improving fiscal and tax incentive policies as well as relevant laws and regulations.
CCUS, a process that captures carbon dioxide emissions from sources like coal-fired power plants and either reuses or stores them so they will not enter the atmosphere, is expected to result in a 14 percent reduction in carbon emissions by 2050 and will likely have broad market prospects, the International Energy Agency said.
Ma said the country is currently at the demonstration stage of industrialization of CCUS and is at the overall level of international development.
However, the country's mastery of key technologies is still behind advanced international levels and the onshore storage potential also varies greatly in different regions while the cost is also relatively high, he said. An effective industrial scale economic utilization will substantially facilitate the country's green energy transition.
In addition to Ma, many other national legislators and political advisors also expressed the necessity to develop CCUS to facilitate the country's ambition to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and hit carbon neutrality by 2060.
Dong Qiang, former president of China State Shipbuilding Corp Ltd, suggested the country accelerate technological research and come up with pilot projects of CCUS technology.
Dong said CCUS is an important technological option to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the energy sector and will be essential to achieving the goal of net-zero emissions. As the country's coal-fired plants, steel and cement enterprises are mostly located in coastal regions, the development of CCUS offshore will play a key role in cutting emissions, he said.
The industrialization development of offshore CCUS will also hasten a large number of new equipment requirements, including carbon dioxide capture devices, carbon dioxide storage tanks and tank cars, all of which have very broad market prospects, he added.
In 2020, CCUS projects worldwide were capturing and storing 40 million metric tons of carbon dioxide, which is 0.1 percent of global carbon emissions, the International Energy Agency said.
The agency predicts the technology will help cut carbon emissions by 1.6 billion tons, 4 billion tons and 7.6 billion tons by 2030, 2035 and 2050, respectively. A report by Royal Dutch Shell said China will need to scale up its CCUS capacity by more than 400-fold in the next four decades.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, echoed this by saying that CCUS, together with a combination of measures including the vigorous expansion of clean energy to replace fossil fuels, will effectively control carbon emissions.
The Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) predicts the country's primary energy consumption in 2060 will reach 5.57 billion tons of standard coal, with fossil energy consumption accounting for around 26.8 percent that will produce 2.71 billion tons of carbon dioxide emissions.
While carbon sink, including forests and grasslands, will offset around 1.6 to 1.9 billion tons, there is still a gap of 1 billion tons, it said.
China's leading tech companies have been making efforts to develop CCUS technology. That includes Tencent, which is rolling out a pilot CCUS project in China with Iceland's Carbfix that provides a natural and permanent storage solution by turning carbon dioxide into solid matter underground in less than two years. The project will also be the first of its kind in Asia.
#317
The conflict in Ukraine has had an impact not only on global energy and oil prices but also on what Canadians pay for consumer goods.
As the US on Tuesday announced a ban on the importing of Russian oil and gas, Canada's oil industry lobby groups and pro-oil politicians looked to fill the void, calling for the federal government to make a "clear commitment" to support Canadian oil and gas development and exports.
Canada's energy leaders said they could immediately replace about one-third to one-half of the volume and move the oil south of the border by pipeline and rail. And it's a "possibility" for the US to look for a steady supply of more oil to reduce prices and replace Russian barrels, according to CBC News.
Alberta Premier Jason Kenney touted his province's oil and gas industry, criticizing US President Joe Biden for canceling the Keystone XL pipeline permit on his first day in office. The $8 billion project would have carried roughly 800,000 barrels of oil per day from Alberta to the US Gulf Coast.
Restarting Keystone is "not the answer", and the US needs to reduce its reliance not only on foreign oil, but on "oil in general", said White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Feb 27.
Canadian environmentalists, rights advocates and other experts have denounced attempts to expand fossil fuel projects amid the Ukraine conflict, saying the situation should instead hasten a global energy transition to respond to climate concerns, according to Al Jazeera.
"We're seeing once again the fossil fuel lobby seizing upon a crisis with horrific human consequences to promote its destructive agenda and double down on fossil production expansion," Caroline Brouillette, national policy manager at the Climate Action Network Canada, told the media. "It's been absolutely distressing to see some politicians echo this grotesque spin."
Greenpeace Canada's Keith Stewart also told reporters that oil industry boosters are "overplaying their hand" when it comes to the Ukraine situation. He said it is going to accelerate the end of the age of oil, and a faster energy transition will be good not just for the climate but for global security.
"For the last 80 years, energy security has meant maintaining access to cheap oil by any means necessary, including war," Stewart told Global News. "But no country can block another country's access to the wind and the sun."
The cost of fuel across Canada has been skyrocketing as the Ukraine conflict is putting greater pressure on an already-surging oil price environment, also disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, including lower production capacities and rising demand from consumers.
Gas prices have reached record levels in recent weeks, rising to $1.849 per liter at filling stations in the Greater Toronto area over the last week.
Experts warned that the spike in fuel costs could be part of a larger inflationary trend that ripples throughout the economy, according to the National Post.
"Before the war, we were already seeing very rapidly escalating prices of all sorts of goods," Ellen Goddard, an agricultural economist at the University of Alberta told the media. "As oil prices go up and getting products from point A to point B is just going to get more expensive ... some of that's going to get passed on to consumers."
Goddard said food prices could increase because Russia and Ukraine are two of the world's largest wheat exporters. Crop yields also are affected by fertilizer prices, which are linked to crude oil prices, which could eventually show up as price fluctuations.
Philip Cross, a senior fellow at the Macdonald-Laurier Institute, called it a risky situation, as modelling shows that doubling oil and gas prices will affect prices on items like clothing and food and lead to increased costs for industries such as manufacturing and mining.
Werner Antweiler, a professor at the University of British Columbia, warned of a knock-on effect of surging gas and diesel prices amid the "double whammy" of higher inflation and interest rates.
"It's getting more expensive for trains, planes (and) ships, and these costs are being passed on to consumers. Food items that are transported over long distances; all these imported goods tend to be more expensive," Antweiler told CTV News.
He suggested that Canadian consumers reconsider certain lifestyle choices and how they spend their money.
"That means driving more fuel-efficient cars and cutting back on our discretionary driving," he said.
#318
China is capable of ensuring adequate domestic energy supplies despite rising energy prices and global security concerns, analysts and industry executives said on Wednesday.
Global oil and gas demand has been emerging from the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic with a clear rebound. But, oil prices are expected to remain high this year due to geopolitical tensions.
Yet, China is capable of meeting its domestic oil and gas demand as the country has been stepping up domestic oil and gas exploration in recent years, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
Major Chinese oil and gas players have been intensifying exploration investments over the past few years. China has also made several major breakthroughs in both conventional oilfields and unconventional oil and gas sectors, he said.
US President Joe Biden on Tuesday announced a ban on all imports of Russian oil, gas and energy to the United States, while the United Kingdom is to phase out imports of Russian oil by the end of 2022. The European Union aims to slash Russian gas imports by two-thirds this year as part of its plans to cut its dependence on Russian gas imports.
As a result, oil prices jumped to record highs with WTI crude oil popping as much as 7 percent to trade above $128 per barrel on Tuesday and Brent crude oil, the international benchmark, jumping 7.7 percent to $132.75.
"The European Union's plan to cut import needs from Russia by two-thirds this year has sent shock waves across the globe. To fill the void of around 100 bcm, the EU needs to grab much more spot liquefied natural gas than before, which inevitably leads to high prices and limited spot supply for other regions," said Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF.
"China needs to plan accordingly to source enough LNG to meet domestic gas demand. Expensive spot LNG may also curb Chinese buyers' appetite for the fuel," she said.
China National Petroleum Corp said on Tuesday that the company will come up with advanced and thorough planning in the face of the current situation of the global energy market. It vowed to step up natural gas production capacity construction, including gas storage tanks, to further optimize allocation of resources.
Ensuring adequate supplies of natural gas in the days to come will likely prove not only complex but also challenging, and the company should further strengthen international cooperation and allocate resources according to the changing market situation, in order to ensure a steady gas supply, said Hou Qijun, vice-president of CNPC, during a meeting on Tuesday.
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, or Sinopec, the world's largest refiner by volume, has signed a memorandum of understanding with Saudi Arabian Oil Company, which is widely known as Aramco, on Tuesday for potential downstream collaboration in China.
The two sides will also support Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Co Ltd in conducting a feasibility study into the optimization and expansion of capacity.
Analysts said the cooperation is mutually beneficial in crude trading, refining and engineering services as well as science and technology research and development.
Such collaboration represents a model of energy cooperation between China and Saudi Arabia. The signing of the MoU will support refinery feedstock optimization and downstream petrochemical development, while offering new opportunities to deepen and expand activity amid an accelerating global energy transition, said Yu Baocai, president of Sinopec.
China's National Energy Administration said the country will ensure energy security this year by boosting coal supply capacity, stepping up oil and gas exploration and oil and gas storage capacity construction.
Meanwhile, China will also accelerate solar and wind power generation capacity construction in the Gobi Desert and other arid regions amid efforts to boost renewable power consumption, while coming up with more peaking power sources, including pumped storage, to ensure efficient and effective power generation, said Zhang Jianhua, head of the administration.
#319
China aims to further develop its new energy storage capacity, which is expected to advance from the initial stage of commercialization to large-scale development by 2025, with an installed capacity of more than 30 million kilowatts, regulators said.
The country has vowed to realize the full market-oriented development of new energy storage by 2030, as part of efforts to boost renewable power consumption while ensuring stable operation of the electric grid system, a statement released by the National Development and Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration said.
New energy storage refers to electricity storage processes that use electrochemical, compressed air, flywheel and supercapacitor systems but not pumped hydro, which uses water stored behind dams to generate electricity when needed.
The NDRC said new energy storage that uses electrochemical means is expected to see further technological advances, with its system cost to be further lowered by more than 30 percent in 2025 compared to the level at the end of 2020.
Analysts said accelerating the development of new energy storage will help the country achieve its target of peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2060, as well as its ambition to build a clean, low-carbon, safe and efficient energy system.
"Energy storage facilities are vital for promoting green energy transition with substantial potential, as the central government calls for a new energy-based power system," said Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research firm BloombergNEF.
"While the cost-learning curve is still relatively slow now, the 14th Five-Year-Plan (2021-25) has made a clear goal for the per unit cost of energy storage to decrease by 30 percent by 2025. This will hopefully accelerate the industry pace."
China is currently the world's biggest power generator. While it is aiming for renewable power to account for more than 50 percent of its total electricity generation capacity by 2025, up from the current 42 percent, this would create challenges to maintaining stable operation of the electrical grid system, as renewable energy is subject to varying weather conditions.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said shortcomings of a new power system lie in the energy storage, which is also a worldwide issue, and improving the new energy storage capacity will further improve the country's new power system.
The commission said earlier it will introduce a plan for new energy storage development for 2021-25 and beyond, while local energy authorities should also make plans for the scale and project layout of new energy storage systems in their regions.
#320
Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region in Northwest China has transmitted a total of 503.7 billion kWh of locally-generated electricity to other parts of the country since 2010, according to the State Grid's Xinjiang branch.
Among them, 137.8 billion kWh was generated from renewable energy -- photovoltaic and wind power. It is equivalent to the burning of standard coal by 41 million tons, reducing emissions of carbon dioxide by 110 million tons and greatly contributing to China's green and low-carbon energy transition.
Over the past 11 years, the State Grid has constructed four power transmission channels in Xinjiang to transmit locally-generated electricity to 20 other provincial-level regions of China.
Xinjiang is rich in energy resources, including wind and solar power, and boasts excessive power generation capacity. With power transmission channels built, the region can transmit and sell some unused power to other parts of China.
In addition, the construction of power transmission channels have driven the development of thermal power, wind power, and photovoltaic power in the region. The total installed power capacity of Xinjiang has been increased from 14.1 million KW in 2010 to 109 million KW as of January 2022, with the utilization rate of renewable energy increasing from 63 percent in 2016 to 94 percent.
#321
While the world is pushing for net-zero emissions to address climate crisis, the target is still a challenge to Africa as the continent struggles to provide sufficient energy to its population.
According to a report from the African Energy Chamber released on Tuesday, the rapid moves to attain net-zero emissions at all costs will have severe impacts on Africa's oil, gas and power sectors, which are a critical source of employment, foreign exchange earnings, and are key to providing affordable and reliable power to the entire economy.
The African Development Bank estimates that over 640 million Africans lack access to electricity and with the continent's population expected to double by 2050, there is a significant generation deficit.
The African Energy Chamber estimates that Africa's power generation capacity should increase from the current 848.6 terawatts to 2,622 terawatts in 2040 in order to develop its economy.
The report said conventional fuels, which account for about 61 percent of total electricity generation, are expected to play a huge role in alleviating poverty in Africa and can contribute to energy access improvement across a range of economies, sectors, and communities.
However, declining oil, gas and coal markets are presenting trouble for sub-Saharan Africa countries in their efforts to increase energy access.
Additionally, employment in oil, gas and coal is also expected to drop significantly, due to the falling demand and the gradual shift toward renewable sources.
The International Energy Agency estimates that around 5 million jobs will be lost in oil, gas and coal industries by 2030 globally.
Few of those losses are expected from Africa, due to the continual production of oil and gas, and the low likelihood of adopting net-zero emission targets.
The report estimates employment in the oil and gas industry in Africa will decrease on average 12.5 percent per year by 2030 and a further 30 percent between 2030 and 2040, under the net-zero emissions target.
However, under net-zero emissions, the millions in rural Africa lacking electricity and clean cooking options will have a higher likelihood of employment in new business ventures from clean energy technologies to stimulate new industrial capacities.
Therefore, given the rising global shift toward energy transition and renewable energy, the report said Africa could take advantage of the vast renewable energy potential, energy efficiency and other minerals to fast-track the growth of clean energy industries.
The report said focusing on renewables over fossil fuels allows job creation and economic growth, as well as climate change mitigation.
However, the report recommended extreme caution not to paint the picture that the whole continent needs to decarbonize its electricity mix.
The report said 75 percent of electricity generated in West Africa comes from conventional fuels, based on an abundance of environmentally friendly natural gas found in the region.
#322
New measures in pipeline to boost nonfossil energy's role in promoting green transition
China's nonfossil energy will not only meet the country's incremental energy demand but also replace fossil fuel stocks on a large scale by 2030, authorities said on Thursday.
A statement jointly released by the National Energy Administration and the National Development and Reform Commission on Thursday said China will come up with an integrated institution and policy system for low-carbon energy development by 2030, when the country's nonfossil fuels will play an important role in ensuring a steady domestic energy supply.
China will by then come up with a series of policies, standards and supervising systems, and continuously push forward the country's green energy transition under the condition of domestic energy security, it said.
Chinese authorities also emphasized the importance of speeding up construction of large-scale wind and solar power bases in the country's deserts to push forward construction of a greener energy supply system with clean and low carbon energy as the mainstay.
The government will continue optimizing the energy mix via furthering the use of wind and solar in more arid areas while upgrading and reconstructing existing coal-fired power generation units. It will also facilitate new energy power transmission to ensure that clean energy is not wasted.
It is necessary that clean energy should be fully utilized to generate power and all power generated by clean energy should be connected to the grid, it said.
An analyst said the construction of a gigantic renewable energy complex in China's desert regions will further facilitate the country's ambition of reaching more than 1,200 gigawatts of installed solar and wind capacity by 2030.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said the country's low-carbon energy as the mainstay of its energy mix will play a key role in the country's achieving a carbon peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060.
The statement also emphasized the importance of adjustment and regulation of clean energy transmission, which will also better divert power and avoid power waste, Luo said.
China started working on a massive renewable energy project in desert areas last year, including the first phase comprising 100 GW of wind and solar energy that had started operations last October. The second batch of massive wind and solar power projects is expected to start construction this year and begin operations and get connected to the grid by 2023, according to the NEA.
Luo said the upgrade and reconstruction of existing coal-fired power generation units emphasize the importance of fossil fuels in ensuring energy security and peak load regulation.
Coal still plays an important role in the country's energy supply and should not be denied completely, he added.
#323
Built using state-of-the-art technology, China's first independently developed ski-waxing truck is in service for the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics.
It runs on a hydrogen fuel cell, making it a zero emissions vehicle.
The truck is part of efforts by Shandong province, where it was developed and manufactured, to promote greater use of hydrogen energy.
The Shandong provincial government signed an agreement with the Ministry of Science and Technology last year to set up research and development projects with a focus on exploring efficient ways of using hydrogen to power a wide range of applications including transportation, ports, industrial parks and residential communities.
"The projects will contribute to national goals, under which peak carbon emissions should be reached before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060," said Han Shaohua, deputy director of the high-tech office of the Shandong Provincial Department of Science and Technology.
For its initial project, Shandong will build an expressway, two ports, four industrial parks and five residential communities powered mainly by hydrogen over the next four years. Three centers for popularizing the use of clean energy, and to explain how hydrogen is produced and used, will also be built.
This first stage will focus on developing core technologies in hydrogen purification and its production through electrolysis to ensure that China has abundant quantities of hydrogen, said Xu Zichun, director of the National Fuel Cell Technology Innovation Center. "With this project, we seek to test and master a number of independently developed core technologies and products, and to promote the large-scale application of hydrogen energy," Xu said.
Shandong has been ramping up efforts to produce, store, transport and use the clean energy source since last year.
Twenty-two hydrogen fueling stations have been put into service, with daily supply capacity reaching 20,000 kilograms. More than 900 hydrogen-powered vehicles, including buses, forklifts and refrigerated trucks are now on the road, the department stated on Jan 6.
The province launched its first hydrogen-powered intercity vehicle network last June, when 170 cold-chain and slag trucks were put into service.
The vehicles travel between the eastern city of Qingdao and Linyi city in the west, and are expected to help reduce the province's overall carbon emissions by 20,000 metric tons a year, according to the operating team at the Qingdao International Academician Park.
A batch of hydrogen-fueled heavy tractors was put into service in January at the port in Rizhao city. The tractors are specially designed for ports and boast low hydrogen consumption. They can be refueled in five minutes and drive over 300 kilometers on one tank.
When it comes to launching the energy transition, ports are key battlegrounds because they are energy hubs that bring together all types of transportation, including sea, land, waterway and air, said Zhang Feng, deputy general manager of Qingdao Qianwan United Container Terminal of Shandong Port Group.
"We are participating in the project to develop port-based clean energy supply systems by using abundant byproduct hydrogen to replace fossil fuels," Zhang said.
The company began constructing a hydrogen fueling station at its port on Dec 29.
"We plan to build an integrated hydrogen energy supply system, three fueling stations and 10 hydrogen-powered rail-mounted gantry cranes within four years," Zhang said.
Shandong is also in the process of selecting a number of residential communities as demonstration areas for the use of hydrogen to heat homes. "We will use measures like building exclusive hydrogen pipelines, as well as blending hydrogen with natural gas to heat homes," Han said.
#324
Concerted effort made to develop related technology for a greener future
Energy transition reached a new level as environmentally friendly hydrogen was used to power the torch that lit the cauldron at the Beijing Winter Olympics opening ceremony.
It was the first time in Olympic history that a zero-emissions torch had been used for such an occasion.
As cauldrons used for previous Olympics consumed thousands of cubic meters of natural gas per hour, the use of hydrogen avoids substantial carbon emissions. Suppliers used to transport gas day and night to ensure sufficient fuel for the cauldron.
The hydrogen used to light the Winter Olympics flame in Beijing was supplied by China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, or Sinopec, the world's largest refiner by volume.
The company is to build a hydrogen processing unit at its Yanshan petrochemicals complex in the Chinese capital to ensure a sufficient supply of the clean fuel.
The nation has accelerated expansion of its hydrogen energy industry in recent years as it races toward a carbon neutral goal, with investment in the sector continuing to grow, according to experts.
A recently released report by global energy giant Royal Dutch Shell said the nation is making a concerted push to develop hydrogen technology and infrastructure, especially in industries such as heavy-duty road transportation, shipping and aviation, as well as steel and chemicals.
Industries that currently rely on fossil fuels, with few clean energy alternatives, need to transition to new lower-carbon energy sources, and hydrogen will play an important role in meeting such needs, the report said.
According to S&P Global Platts Analytics, the introduction of hydrogen to such industries is especially necessary, as China produces more than half the world's steel and cement, and use of the gas can significantly reduce related emissions.
For example, using hydrogen to manufacture steel can reduce total global carbon emissions by about 8 percent. The steel industry has come under increasing scrutiny due to its reliance on carbon-intensive fossil fuels.
Royal Dutch Shell suggests that heavy industry in China, which will remain a significant source of energy demand and consumption, should prioritize the replacement of coal with low-carbon hydrogen as its primary energy source.
The company said the introduction of hydrogen to such industry will place China in a leading position to pioneer new solutions to create momentum for change and to benefit from it. It will also give the nation an opportunity to become an exporter of low-carbon industrial products and technology, as well as low-carbon industrial expertise, the report added.
China is the world's largest user of pure hydrogen, consuming some 14.6 million metric tons annually, or 20 percent of global demand. According to S&P Global Platts, more than 95 percent of the hydrogen consumed is used for oil refining and ammonia synthesis.
Recognizing the importance of the gas as a low-carbon energy source and global growth industry, China's 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) names hydrogen as one of six industries of the future. The government is also expected to launch a comprehensive national hydrogen development plan soon. The plan will include a full ecosystem for a hydrogen economy, ranging from a strong manufacturing base for electrolyzers to the various downstream uses of "green" hydrogen.
#325
Experts say nation can help others adopt much-needed renewable energy solutions
Experts have encouraged China in a new report first seen by China Daily to ramp up international collaboration on climate change and proliferate renewable energy infrastructure and green financing abroad.
The report, released on Monday by the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics,argues that China's leaders are key to addressing the global climate crisis.
"We have the dual challenge of generating an economic recovery from the COVID-19 crisis, and having a very different kind of economy," said Danae Kyriakopoulou, a senior policy fellow at the London School of Economics and coauthor of the report. "No country can do this alone,and that's why collaboration is really critical, and China is a very important player in this agenda."
The report, titled Internationalism in Climate Action and China's Role,reviews China's domestic and international progress on green development to date, and offers recommendations for a more expansive role on global climate matters.
"We are now seeing the effects of climate change on a very large scale,"Kyriakopoulou said. "With climate not really being high on the policy agenda, for example, in the United States before this administration, we cannot afford another period where this is again not a priority, where countries do not work together."
China made several notable moves on the international stage in the lead-up to and during the COP26 climate change conference in Glasgow last year, including the signing of a joint declaration with the US and a commitment to halt financing of coal projects abroad.
Even so, the authors of the report said China's engagement on climate change is usually viewed through a domestic lens, and China's role in international collaboration and coordination in climate action is, at times, overlooked.
"This is becoming increasingly important, reflecting growing and intensifying economic ties between China and the rest of the world, particularly emerging markets and developing economies," the report said.
China has made huge gains in the proliferation of domestic non-fossil fuel energy infrastructure since the nation's Renewable Energy Law was introduced in 2005. That year, China had less than 2 gigawatts of solar and wind power combined. Today, there are more than 260 gigawatts of solar and in excess of 300 gigawatts of wind power in the nation, following an unprecedented period of green energy development.
"China became the world's largest producer of wind and solar energy in an astonishingly short period of time," the report noted.
This had a knock-on effect on global markets, significantly driving down the cost of renewables and making them competitive with fossil fuels for the first time.
China now has a "golden opportunity" to work with other countries on their renewable energy grid integration efforts, the authors said.
"China's role in promoting global investment in low-carbon industries is vital, considering the scale of the transformation needed," said the report.
Part of this support might come in the role of financing, the researchers suggested. The International Renewable Energy Agency estimates that $131 trillion will be needed between now and 2050 to finance the energy transition and build an energy system compatible with the Paris Agreement's aim of limiting warming to less than 2 C and closer to 1.5 C.
China has a strong incentive to work toward enhancing debt sustainability in the countries in which it invests, said the report, and to work bilaterally to support sustainable economic development through investments that promote climate-change mitigation and adaptation.
Kyriakopoulou said this applies in particular to the Belt and Road Initiative, or BRI, the China-proposed cross-border development plan.
"It is in China's interests to ensure the money that it gives and the investment that it makes in the Belt and Road are promoting sustainable development," she said. "If China is making loans to countries, it has an interest for them to do well in terms of their economic development. It's not possible to do this if you don't focus on the climate angle, because it is becoming a really big economic and financial risk."
Bodies such as the BRI International Green Development Coalition, which was established in 2019 and is supervised by China's Ministry of Ecology and Environment, will play an important role in ensuring sustainability lies at the core of development in the area covered by the BRI, the report said, as will the Green Investment Principles established by the UK-China Green Finance Center in 2021.
The report also noted the important role China will continue to play as a "pioneer in research and innovation for green technologies and solutions" and said China should aim to "influence world standards, supply chains and drive innovation in technologies that will help combat climate change".
#326
Global energy giant Shell plc has started operations at the power-to-hydrogen electrolyser in Zhangjiakou, Hebei province, on Friday.
The facility is the largest in its portfolio to date, and reflects the company's confidence in the country's huge market potential, industry insiders said.
The electrolyser, Shell's first commercial hydrogen development project in China, will provide about half of the total green hydrogen supply for fuel cell vehicles at the Zhangjiakou competition zone during the Beijing 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, set to begin on Feb 4, it said.
"We see opportunities across the hydrogen supply chain in China, including its production, storage and shipping," said Wael Sawan, director of Shell's integrated gas, renewable and energy solutions.
"We want to be the trusted partner of our customers from different sectors as we help them decarbonize in China."
Shell is one of the multinational corporations in China that has been actively laying out plans to further tap the potential of hydrogen, together with Siemens, Thyssenkrupp, Toyota, Ballard and Hyundai, which have all been actively laying out hydrogen business plans in the country, eyeing the potential of the sector's future development.
The development of industry chains in the production, storage, transport and application of green hydrogen has picked up pace in recent years, with cities across the nation actively laying out plans to tap into the hydrogen sector.
Ivy Yin, energy transition analyst at S&P Global Platts, said China is expected to become a key global hydrogen equipment supplier by bringing down manufacturing costs, similar to how it has led global solar panel production.
The China Hydrogen Alliance predicts that by 2025, the output value of China's hydrogen energy industry will reach 1 trillion yuan ($152.6 billion) and by 2030, China's demand for hydrogen will reach 35 million metric tons, accounting for at least 5 percent of China's terminal energy system.
The Shell project is part of a joint venture between Shell China and Zhangjiakou City Transport Construction Investment Holding Group Co Ltd, formed in November 2020.
The 20 megawatt power-to-hydrogen electrolyser and hydrogen refueling stations in Zhangjiakou are Phase 1 of the joint venture. The companies have plans to scale up to 60 MW in the next two years under Phase 2.
Utilizing onshore wind power, the project will initially supply green hydrogen to fuel a fleet of more than 600 fuel cell vehicles at the Zhangjiakou competition zone during the Winter Olympic Games. After that, the hydrogen will be used for public and commercial transport in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, helping to decarbonize its mobility sector.
According to Bai Jing, director of the Zhangjiakou Municipal Development and Reform Commission, the hydrogen industry is critical for Zhangjiakou's transition to low-carbon energy and to achieve the city's carbon peak and carbon neutrality targets.
"This project will help secure hydrogen supply for the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics and make it a green one while contributing to the development of the hydrogen industry in the city and the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region," he said.
#327
Indonesia's decision to lift its coal export ban, in response to lobbying by its key clients in Asia, illustrates why the region continues to struggle with its climate commitments, experts said.
The Southeast Asian nation, the world's largest thermal coal exporter, announced on Jan 1 a monthlong ban on coal exports to avoid domestic outages caused by low coal supplies. It partially lifted the ban on Jan 13 after Japan, South Korea and the Philippines lobbied against this move.
Most Asian governments have signed the Paris climate treaty and pledged to reduce carbon emissions to limit global warming to well below 2 C. But while there are moves to develop clean energy resources, experts said it will be difficult for Asia to wean itself away from coal-fired power plants since coal is cheap and plentiful.
Renato Redentor Constantino, executive director of think tank Institute for Climate and Sustainable Cities in Manila, said fossil fuel capital is "embedded so deeply" in some Asian economies and used in various sectors including manufacturing, energy and agriculture.
"This only emphasizes the risks of fossil dependence shared across economies that are also reeling from the increasingly severe impacts of carbon pollution," Constantino said.
In its latest report, the International Energy Agency said global power generation from coal is expected to have jumped by 9 percent last year, following an economic rebound that boosted electricity demand. Asia dominates the global coal market.
The IEA forecasts coal-fired power generation will increase 11 percent in India and 12 percent across Southeast Asia from 2021 to 2024.
Supply shortages
Sisilia Nurmala Dewi, Indonesia team leader at international environmental organization 350.org, said the export ban has revealed that the coal market is vulnerable to supply shortages, which should encourage governments to make the shift to renewable energy sources.
She cited the Asian Development Bank's decision to stop financing coal-powered plants and urged other banks and financing institutions to do the same.
"Asia needs a timely energy transition to (stop the) climate crisis, save humans and sustain our economy," said Tata Mustasya, climate and energy campaign strategist at Greenpeace Southeast Asia.
Coal mining is an extractive industry, and the time will come when coal reserves will be exhausted, Mustasya said. As such, Asian countries must invest more on renewable energy sources such as solar power as "coal addiction (is a threat) not only to the environment, but also to the energy security".
Indonesia is a net exporter of coal, but coal miners must first meet their domestic market obligation, or DMO, before they are allowed to export.
The DMO requires miners to supply 25 percent of their annual production to state-owned utility firm Perusahaan Listrik Negara at a maximum price of $70 per metric ton.
The price cap, however, falls way below current market prices that can hit as much as $250 per ton, pushing miners to flout the rules. Local supply was also aggravated by weather related disruptions that reduced coal production last year.
Constantino said the fact that more advanced economies like Japan and South Korea lobbied for Indonesia to relax the export ban also "shows how fragile their futures are".
"The image of high-tech, digital economies will remain questionable so long as they remain so dependent on an obsolete, industrial revolution era fuel such as coal," he said.
#328
With burgeoning demand for natural gas in the country, Chinese natural gas distribution companies are further diversifying gas import sources with long-term contracts to ensure sufficient gas supply in the nation, analysts said.
China's privately controlled ENN Group and Zhejiang Energy Group CP Ltd recently agreed to secure gas imports from Russian energy company Novatek through long-term agreements on the supply of liquefied natural gas from the Arctic LNG 2 project.
Arctic LNG 2 is Novatek's second LNG project, which includes the construction of three LNG liquefaction trains of 6.6 million metric tons per year each for a total LNG capacity of 19.8 million tons, and cumulative gas condensate production capacity of 1.6 million tons annually, Novatek said.
The contract with Zhejiang Energy stipulates the supply of up to 1 million tons of LNG per year for 15 years. The agreement with ENN Natural Gas involves the delivery of approximately 600,000 tons of LNG annually over a period of 11 years. The LNG will be delivered to the LNG terminals of the two companies in China, Novatek said.
Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF, said booming receiving capacity construction and robust LNG demand in China have led to a surge in contracts.
"Second-tier players also played a bigger role in contract signings, accounting for more than a third of the total newly signed volume in 2021," Li said. "As the expansion of LNG receiving capacity outpaces the growth of contracts, the gap between China's LNG contract supply and import terminal capacity is expected to balloon, which may lead to more contracts in the near term."
ENN operates 230 town gas distribution projects in China, with distribution capacity exceeding 10 billion cubic meters per year, approximately equivalent to 7.2 million tons of LNG.
Zheng Hongtao, president of ENN, said the contract will expand ENN's LNG import portfolio, helping meet domestic demand and assist China's low-carbon energy transition.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, believes natural gas will become a key area of cooperation between the two sides, while imported natural gas can drive the whole natural gas industry chain, including gas transmission, storage and gas power generation.
"With China's demand for natural gas expected to further increase in the future, cooperation between China and Russia in the future will only be enhanced," Luo said.
#329
China has a clear lead in the publication of research over the past two decades related to the world's climate goal of reaching net-zero emissions, a recent report has found. Its performance is also noteworthy in terms of patents that serve the goal.
The conclusion was reached based on an analysis of over 1.6 million research publications between 2001 and 2020, as well as roughly 800,000 patents, all with the aim of advancing the understanding of clean energy research and innovation and the pathways toward a net-zero emissions future.
Titled Pathways to Net Zero: The Impact of Clean Energy Research, the report was unveiled by Elsevier, a Netherlands-based research publishing and information analytics company, on Wednesday in Beijing.
Over the two-decade period, China produced about 400,000 related publications, followed by the United States with 280,000. India, Germany and Japan rounded out the top five in terms of output, it said.
Zhou Yingying, head of research and analytics at greater China for Elsevier, said China experienced an increase of 32 percent in the first decade in its number of publications. Though largely spawned by rapid development, the country's publications expanded by about 14 percent from 2010 to 2020, "still above the global average level".
Support from Chinese funding agencies is a major reason for the significant increase, she noted.
The report analyzed 766,000 publications that were published between 2016 and 2020. Of them, well over half acknowledged a funding source. And half of the top 10 funders for these publications are based in China, according to the report.
During that period, the National Natural Science Foundation of China funded the largest proportion of these publications, contributing to nearly a quarter of the total and far outstripping other funding bodies, it said.
The report said China's strong performance is also noteworthy in its analysis of patents, despite the bias in its methodology that failed to include patents filed with the China National Intellectual Property Administration.
The report positioned the United States as the leading nation not only in patent portfolio size, but also in patent value. China's portfolio size ranked fifth, behind Japan, South Korea and Germany. In terms of patent value, China ranked fourth.
According to the report, however, China has made significant contributions to the growth of active patents in recent years.
"By 2020, the total number of active patents in the field reached 800,000, with exponential growth over the last 10 years driven in large part by China," it said.
Guan Dabo, a distinguished professor of climate change economics at Tsinghua University, said that as the report shows, China contributes to a significant proportion of publications on clean energy transition and has become a leading powerhouse on clean energy research and technological innovations.
This has happened thanks to "systematic policy implementations and huge funding investment in this field over a period of time", he was quoted as saying in a media release from Elsevier.
"This is not going to stop," Guan said. "The transition to clean energy will increasingly be seen as a key area of productivity for China."
#330
Hydrogen is expected to play a much larger role in China's decarbonization, especially in industries like steelmaking and aviation, where there are few clean energy alternatives, analysts said.
While the country is stepping up development of renewable energy, hydrogen could help cope with the intermittent nature of renewables, as the excessive supplies of renewable power can be used for electrolysis to produce green hydrogen, which can be utilized later to generate electricity, said Ivy Yin, energy transition analyst at S&P Global Platts.
According to S&P Global Platts Analytics, decarbonization in industrial production is highlighted in China, as the nation produces more than half of the world's steel and cement. Emissions from these products can be reduced dramatically with electrolysis hydrogen, provided the input of electricity is from renewables.
As the world's largest pure hydrogen user, China consumes 14.6 million metric tons per year, making up 20 percent of global demand. Over 95 percent of hydrogen is consumed in oil refining and ammonia synthesis, S&P Global Platts said.
The increasing application of hydrogen in these sectors could have a positive influence on carbon emissions reductions as China has a large refining sector and is also the world's leading ammonia producer at nearly 48 million tons per year-a level representing 25 percent of global supply.
Yin believes China is likely to maximize its efforts to facilitate the production and supply of hydrogen, such as leveraging renewables in North China and Northwest China for massive wind and solar power projects, among which the first batches in the areas comprising 100 gigawatts of wind and solar energy have already launched operations.
"Hydrogen can also be transported across long distances flexibly, which is difficult for renewable energy due to great challenges associated with inter-regional power transmission," said Yin.
"Heavy transportation like trucking and public transit buses is also a potential market for fuel cell electric vehicles."
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said hydrogen will likely play a key role in cutting emissions in sectors like steelmaking, heavy-duty trucks, shipping and cement.
It is believed the government will come up with a more detailed development plan for the hydrogen energy industry soon covering hydrogen production, transportation and consumption, Luo said.
The energy vehicle development plan drafted by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said China aims to have 1 million hydrogen fuel cell vehicles on the road by 2030, with at least 1,000 hydrogen refueling stations.
Many State-owned enterprises, including China Petroleum and Chemical Corp and State Power Investment Corp Ltd, have proposed ambitious hydrogen strategies.
SPIC started a demonstration project in the Tibet autonomous region in November, which focused on using hydrogen to overcome the issue of the intermittence of renewable-based power.
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, also known as Sinopec, announced an investment plan of $4.6 billion in the hydrogen sector through 2025, aiming to boost its annual hydrogen production capacity to 500,000 tons by 2025.
Sinopec has also started construction of a major green hydrogen project in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region in November. The project is expected to produce 20,000 tons of green hydrogen annually after being put into operation in 2023.
Alan Hayes, an analyst with S&P Global Platts, said the project is an important test case which includes the development of renewable power generation, new hydrogen production and new hydrogen storage, and can replace high carbon-based hydrogen with a low-carbon choice at the consumer end.
"There are not many other projects that can include the full hydrogen production and consumption chain," Hayes said. One of the challenges for all low carbon hydrogen projects around the world will be the high production costs due to current production pathways. The key to gaining more prominence for low carbon hydrogen projects based on electrolysis in the market is to widen access to low-cost electricity from renewable sources, which can also help them maintain regional cost competitiveness, he said.
Yin said China's hydrogen electrolyzers are already much cheaper than overseas suppliers and the country expects to become a key global hydrogen equipment supplier by bringing down manufacturing costs, similar to what the country has done to dominate global solar panel production.
On the other hand, hydrogen penetration into new markets still requires massive investment in "ecosystem" infrastructure, including hydrogen transportation, storage and delivery, as well as renewable electricity generation.
These challenges are not unique to China, said S&P Global Platts Analytics. Carbon neutral hydrogen, along with renewables and nuclear energy, will need to further grow its share in China's electricity mix to displace coal and gas, said Yin.
Domestic cities are laying out plans to tap into the hydrogen sector. The nation's capital aims to have over 10,000 fuel cell vehicles on the road and 37 hydrogen filling stations by 2025, part of its ambitious plan to develop the hydrogen energy industry.
Shanghai is aiming to lead development of the country's hydrogen industry with 10,000 hydrogen cars and more than 30 hydrogen stations by 2023. Shanxi province, a traditional base for coal mining, also vowed to become a national hub for the hydrogen industry, taking the development of hydrogen as part of its energy revolution
#331
A report on climate change released on Thursday said the key to reducing carbon dioxide emissions lies in energy transition to a low-carbon path.
Co-authored by experts from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the China Meteorological Administration and other institutions, the Annual Report on Actions To Address Climate Change 2021 mentioned challenges and actions needed to achieve carbon targets.
Carbon targets refer to China's commitment to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.
The report provides measures to achieve the carbon targets and names a few major industries that should adopt an energy transition path to low-carbon development. Companies in the construction, transportation, and iron and steel sectors should play a leading role in the transition, it said.
For example, the transportation sector, which emitted about 1 billion metric tons of carbon in 2019, needs to find alternative fuels and improve energy efficiency technology, the report said. This year's annual report, the 13th, includes 30 articles written by 86 authors.
Chen Ying, a researcher from the academy's Research Institute for Eco-civilization who was also the associate editor of the report, said China can learn from the energy transition experiences of developed countries that have already seen their carbon dioxide emissions peak.
She said countries should cooperate in governance system enhancement, scientific innovation and financial support.
"Research has shown that human activities are major causes of global warming," Chen said. "Reducing carbon dioxide emissions is necessary to ease climate change."
Data from the World Meteorological Organization Greenhouse Gas Bulletin said that global carbon dioxide concentrations reached 413.2 parts per million, a measure of the amount of a gas in a sample of air, last year, much higher than the 280 ppm recorded during the preindustrial period before 1750.
Last year, the global temperature was 1.2 C higher than the average between 1850 and 1900, ranking among the three hottest years in historical meteorological records, according to the China Blue Book on Climate Change published by the China Meteorological Administration
#332
Innovative solutions debut at trade gala to support carbon neutrality
Manufacturers saw the recent China International Import Expo as a platform for introducing the latest low-carbon technologies, products and services, which enables downstream companies to become greener and promotes carbon neutrality, according to industry experts.
Carbon capture solutions such as UCARSOL and SELEXOL debuted during the fourth CIIE in Shanghai for the Asia-Pacific market. They are designed to reduce carbon emissions in industrial processes to support energy and manufacturing companies in achieving their carbon reduction goals.
The solutions capture carbon dioxide in the production of blue hydrogen, biomass oil and gas, as well as in gas emissions at the end stage of traditional fossil fuel energy consumption.
These carbon capture solutions are among the 32 debut products and solutions showcased by Dow Inc at the CIIE.
"Dow is showcasing its advanced portfolio of materials science solutions at the fourth CIIE and demonstrating how it can help customers and industries in China grow in a lower-carbon and more environmentally sustainable way," said Gloria Xu, vice-president of Dow China.
Xu said that in response to rising demand for high-value materials in the Chinese market, Dow brought more than 100 innovative technologies and products to the fair under three themes: climate protection, consumption upgrade and new infrastructure.
Carbon neutrality is key to a sustainable manufacturing ecosystem and the CIIE is an ideal platform for engagement with Chinese customers, partners and government agencies around innovative solutions that help energy-intensive industries reduce their carbon footprint, Xu added.
Dow, a stalwart and dedicated participant at the CIIE, brought for Chinese customers its full range of solutions, with innovative materials science targeting the needs of the China market to help boost business growth and build a better and lower-carbon future.
"China is becoming the world's largest consumer market amid the strategic transition toward higher-quality and lower-carbon growth. At the CIIE, we can engage existing and potential Chinese customers from almost all industries and regions. There is no other place with the same depth and width," Xu said.
"The CIIE is an important international exhibition. Through this excellent platform, we have demonstrated Caterpillar's innovative products, technologies and services, engaging our major customers, business partners and government agencies to reinforce our commitment to helping our customers in China build a better world in a more sustainable way," said Chen Qihua, vice-president of Caterpillar.
Caterpillar displayed a portfolio of products and solutions ranging from gas generator sets, remanufacturing products and command stations to help customers build a better world in a sustainable manner.
The Cat gas generator set features low total life cycle costs in its class with advantages of high efficiency and reliability along with easy operation and maintenance.
Its gas gensets are designed to meet the challenges of a dynamic market environment. Cat's models address the high requirements of a broad range of applications and improve efficiency, reliability, flexibility and environmental sustainability as they have low life cycle costs.
Using 100 percent original equipment manufacturer parts, Cat's remanufactured products provide like-new quality and performance with the same warranty as new equivalents. Each product is cleaned, inspected, salvaged and remanufactured to original factory specifications.
"Through remanufacturing, we make a significant contribution to sustainable development-extending the value of the energy and water consumed in a component's original manufacture and keeping high-value nonrenewable resources in circulation for multiple life cycles," Chen said.
He added that low-carbon development is a priority for the government, and Caterpillar has seen growing needs of its customers for lower-carbon solutions to help them achieve climate goals while building a better world.
"Our customers and the industries we serve need advanced energy solutions and fuel-efficiency construction machines, as well as value-added services, to navigate through their energy transition to a lower-carbon future," Chen said.
Norway-headquartered Hexagon Purus is a global provider of hydrogen Type 4 cylinders, battery packs and vehicle systems integration for fuel cell electric and battery electric vehicles. The company took the opportunity at the 2021 CIIE to demonstrate how its hydrogen cylinders and systems technology can help speed up the adoption of fuel-cell-powered vehicles in China.
This year marks the start of Hexagon Purus' development in China and it is also the first time for the Scandinavian firm to participate in the CIIE. Hexagon Purus debuted its world-class Type 4 cylinder for the Chinese market.
"The hydrogen industry is developing rapidly in China, and we see big opportunities here," said Urs Laeuppi, CEO of Hexagon Purus China& Southeast Asia.
Hydrogen energy is a clean, efficient, safe and sustainable secondary energy source. In the context of building a new power system with new energy as the mainstay, hydrogen energy will be an important technological support to help achieve carbon neutrality.
"We see huge potential for hydrogen energy in transportation in the future," said Laeuppi. He said that the lower weight, longer life cycle and lower costs associated with Type 4 cylinders are considered to be a game-changer for the mass adoption of fuel cell electric vehicles, or FCEVs, and hydrogen distribution trailers.
China has been stepping up investments in hydrogen energy with central and local government policy guidance to explore the hydrogen industry.
The nation plans to have 1 million FCEVs in operation by 2035, which will create enormous opportunities for enterprises involved in this sector.
"We look forward to leveraging our expertise and experience to support China's energy transformation and the ambitious dual-carbon goals," said Laeuppi.
This is the fourth year in a row for Germany's Schott AG to participate in the CIIE. One important highlight for Schott is that all of the company's exhibits during this year's CIIE are produced based on Schott's Climate Neutral 2030 project, which has already achieved 100 percent green electricity at Schott plants in China, and 75 percent green electricity in plants worldwide.
Aiming to achieve companywide climate neutrality by 2030, Schott has developed an action plan including investing in the research of technological advances in glass melting, adopting energy-saving solutions, switching to green electricity via certificates, and compensation projects for emissions that it cannot avoid or reduce, such as reforestation projects in China.
"Through these measures, we are able to bring sustainable glass production technologies to China from upstream in the supply chain for an extremely wide range of industries, including pharmaceuticals, advanced optics, consumer electronics and home appliances," said Frank Heinricht, CEO of Schott AG.
Schott supplies specialty glass materials produced with low-carbon methods, so that the company reduces the carbon footprint passed down supply chains.
#333
Chinese companies are dauntlessly facing the uphill battle of carbon emission reductions in line with the national goals, and are evolving practical action plans and allocating substantial investment to promote the low-carbon transition, experts said.
Developing renewable energy, optimizing production processes, improving energy efficiency in some key fields like transportation and construction and developing carbon capture and storage technology could emerge as top priorities for companies, knowledgeable consultants said.
For instance, Boston Consulting Group published a book titled China's Pathway to Net Zero, which suggests different road maps for companies in seven major industries, including energy, automobile, construction and finance, to achieve the net zero carbon emission goals.
The book provides strategic frameworks, which emphasize calculating factors that have direct impacts on enterprises' value chains, like carbon emission prices, energy supply and market demand, and deduce carbon emission reductions under various scenarios in the future.
The frameworks will offer quantitative methodologies for businesses to assess climate-related risks, according to BCG partners.
Chen Baiping, managing director and partner of BCG, said companies in various industries need to work out specific and targeted solutions, as well as employ advanced technologies, in the face of the transition challenges.
To ensure that industrial companies can effectively execute their carbon emission reduction plans, the government is expected to promote unified standards and take advantage of economic and tax policies to accelerate the transition process, Chen said.
Meanwhile, export companies should make early plans for dealing with the carbon tariff that will increase costs of exports, said Zhou Yuan, a managing director and senior partner at BCG.
In July, the United Nations Global Compact and BCG jointly published a white paper in Beijing that suggested a "bottom line" for businesses to implement the tasks, which requires companies to apply new technologies and build advantages in environmental, social and governance or "ESG-related" investments.
Wang Yiming, vice-chairman of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, said the carbon emission reduction goals raise more tough tasks for local governments, which requires authorities to improve management skills.
Local governments need to choose more market-oriented methods like carbon tax and carbon trading, instead of administrative interventions, to foster structural reforms and avoid too sharp a decline in energy supply that could constrain production activities, said Wang, who is also a member of the central bank's monetary policy committee.
Wang warned that during the process of clean energy transition, some energy-extensive enterprises will face pressure to exit the market.
"It is preferred to choose mergers and acquisitions rather than bankruptcy or liquidation for withdrawing excessive production capacity consuming high energy, while bringing in new investors could avoid bad debts and prevent financial risks," Wang said.
The People's Bank of China, the central bank, rolled out a new monetary policy tool in November for carbon reduction. This tool will be used to promote low-cost lending to financial institutions so as to strengthen financial support for companies' carbon emission reduction strategies.
Experts said they expect further policy support for key industries' green transition next year, especially in terms of tax and credit policies that can boost green investment.
#334
Africa's efforts to meet its ever increasing energy demand as the continent strives to industrialize while mitigating climate impact are bearing fruits, with increased Chinese investments in renewable energy over the last two decades.
Since the establishment of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation in 2000, China has been a major player in the continent's energy sector.
According to the China-Africa Research Initiative at the Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies, China's financing in Africa's energy sector amounted to $39.2 billion between 2000 and 2019.
Across the continent, the Asian powerhouse has invested in the oil industry, solar, transmission and distribution networks, as well as the construction of gas-fired power plants, hydropower dams and geothermal plants.
Peter Kagwanja, chief executive of think tank Africa Policy Institute, said China has built and financed approximately 96 projects to add to Africa's power generation capacity, many of them sourced from renewable and green energy.
"China is currently involved in the construction or implementation of 39 green projects," Kagwanja said. "When completed, these projects will increase electricity supply, improve energy security, reduce dependence on petroleum imports, and mitigate the effects of climate change."
Some of the major Chinese-built projects in East Africa have helped in the East African Community integration process. These include the $1.7 billion Karuma Hydropower Dam in Uganda and $858 million Lake Turkana wind power station in Kenya.
A 50 megawatt solar power plant located in northern Kenya, which China helped to build, began operations in December 2019 and contributes 2 percent of power to the national energy mix. The project has changed many lives in northern Kenya, where power blackouts were previously a norm.
In Nigeria, Chinese investment in its oil and gas industry reached $16 billion in 2019, according to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation.
Oil production
As the largest oil-producing country in Africa, Nigeria plans to increase its oil production from the current 2 million barrels per day to 3 million by 2023, and sees China as the best partner to realize its target.
Africa's engagement with China has provided major opportunities for the continent's economic development, as Africa possesses abundant yet largely untapped renewable energy resources.
In a recent report by the African Energy Chamber, Africa's 17 trillion cubic meters of natural gas reserves can help meet the continent's future energy demand and play a key part in electrification in various countries due to its accessibility.
Statistics from the United Nations Environment Programme estimated that Africa's untapped renewable energy resources are at 10 terawatts for solar power, 350 gigawatts for hydropower, 110 gigawatts for wind power and 15 gigawatts for geothermal energy.
The UN agency also indicated that sub-Saharan Africa has undiscovered, but technically recoverable, energy resources estimated at 115.34 billion barrels of oil and 21.05 trillion cubic meters of gas.
Despite the potential, the International Energy Agency said Africa suffers from power inaccessibility, unaffordability and unreliability, with 635 million or 55 percent of its population lacking access to electricity.
Amani Abou-Zeid, commissioner for infrastructure and energy at the African Union Commission, said the availability of abundant renewable energy resources on the continent can transform Africa's energy sector to be modern and sustainable through grid and off-grid systems.
"These resources offer opportunities to accelerate clean energy access on the continent through energy transition, and especially factoring natural gas as an energy transition fuel for power and clean cooking," said Abou-Zeid during the COP 26 climate summit in Glasgow.
#335
The decision by US trade officials not to launch an investigation into Asian solar manufacturers has been well received by the industry in China, believing it to be a victory for both the Chinese solar industry as well as Washington's goals to bolster clean energy and combat climate change.
The United States rejected a request on Wednesday to launch an investigation into Asian solar manufacturers, determining that Asian companies did not sell solar cells "at less than normal value," according to a notice in the Federal Register on Wednesday.
JinkoSolar, a solar module manufacturer, said the rejection will benefit Chinese solar companies, especially those with an overseas presence.
Qian Jing, vice-president of JinkoSolar, which is also the world's largest solar panel producer by shipments, said the rejection is a big victory for the US Solar Energy Industries Association, and it is critical to meet the Biden administration's goals to bolster clean energy and combat climate change.
"It is encouraging news for solar manufacturers like JinkoSolar, as this decision provides certainty for us to keep our investments moving," Qian said.
"JinkoSolar will further diversify our supply chain and manufacturing as well as localize sales and services further to accelerate climate action globally," she added.
"US solar developers rely on cost-competitive imports to make their projects competitive and the country relies on economic ways to bring about energy transition."
Li Zhenguo, president of LONGi Green Energy Technology Co, said the company is assessing the possibility of building plants in countries including Malaysia, Vietnam, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and the United States, to further expand its presence on the global stage.
Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said it is a good sign that China and the US have started cooperating and it will be a win-win for both parties.
"China saw its photovoltaic industry developing rapidly in recent years with costs drastically decreasing. The decision will complement each other's advantages," Luo said.
The American Solar Manufacturers Against Chinese Circumvention said in filings with the US Department of Commerce on Aug 16 that certain Chinese companies have been shifting production to Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam and shipping components from China to be assembled into solar cells and panels at factories in these nations to avoid existing US duties on solar cells and panels made in China.
"If this investigation had been initiated, it would have meant long-term damaging consequences for our nation's energy goals and the 230,000 Americans the solar industry currently employs," the American Clean Power Association, a trade group, said in a statement
#336
China "deserves recognition for its climate efforts so far," The New York Times has reported, citing a US climate scientist.
Angel Hsu, a professor of public policy and the environment at the University of North Carolina, made the remarks in an article titled Don't Be So Quick to Doubt China's Climate Change Dedication published Sunday.
Based on her study on China's environmental and climate policy for nearly two decades, she said Beijing has met or has come close to meeting every major energy and environmental target it has set.
"China's ship is still turning," she said, citing data showing China is on a path to exceed its 2030 carbon intensity reduction goals. "China has ratified and adopted its international commitments into law," she added.
Once a critic of China's climate efforts, the scientist said though every country should be responsible to tackle a climate crisis, "we must have a more considered approach when judging China's action before crying foul."
The latest coal production increase in China actually showed the Chinese leadership's attempt to "facilitate a safe and just energy transition," she said, describing the recent directives, if read closely, as a demonstration of China's commitment to mitigate climate change.
"That China's leadership is being forthright about its energy shortage and policy response is an important sign of transparency and progress," she said.
Though it's challenging for China to realize its pledges to peak emission before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060, but "challenging" is not the same as "impossible," she said.
Noting that China has scaled down coal from more than 70 percent of its total energy consumption in 2009 to around 57 percent in 2020, she said, "It's important to give the ship time to turn."
#3337
The future appears bright for Indonesia's solar energy sector as Southeast Asia's biggest economy aims to raise its renewable energy capacity to meet its climate commitments, experts said.
Indonesia has pledged to reduce emissions by 29 percent under a business-as-usual scenario, and by 41 percent, with international support, by 2030. The country is among the world's top emitters due to deforestation and its dependence on coal-fired power plants.
Indonesian President Joko Widodo, who spoke at the COP 26 climate summit in Glasgow this week, said his country plans to increase the use of renewables to reduce emissions.
A 10-year electricity procurement plan that the state-owned utility firm Perusahaan Listrik Negara issued in October revealed that it aims to add 20.9 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity in the next few years. This means renewable energy will account for more than half the additional energy capacity. The company plans to add 4.68 GW of solar power capacity by 2030.
"Indonesia can increase (its climate) ambition because there's so much potential in solar energy," said Fabby Tumiwa, executive director of the Institute for Essential Services Reform, a think tank in Jakarta.
According to a study by the think tank, Finland's Lappeenranta University of Technology and the German think tank Agora Energiewende that was published in May, the reduction in the prices of batteries and solar photovoltaic systems and the huge solar potential throughout the country can make solar energy the primary source of electricity generation in Indonesia by 2050.
The study estimates that solar power can account for as much as 88 percent of total electricity generation.
"Why solar? Because the price (of solar panels and batteries) has been going down rapidly and we have yearlong (source of) solar power," said Elrika Hamdi, an energy finance analyst at the US-based Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis.
Location matters
Indonesia lies along the equator and this location ensures that the whole archipelago can harness sunlight-a free resource-throughout the year.
The 100% Renewable Energy team, or RE100, at the Australian National University in Canberra reported that the potential of Indonesia's solar energy sector is even greater than that of other countries that are now home to large solar energy installations.
Indonesia's Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources estimates that the country has the potential to produce nearly 208 GW of solar energy, yet solar generation in the country is less than 1 percent now, according to the Institute for Essential Services Reform.
David Silalahi, a member of the RE100 team, believes solar and other renewable energy sources can replace coal as Indonesia's main energy resource ultimately. And it can start by gradually retiring each of the country's over 200 coal-fired power plants.
The utility firm Perusahaan Listrik Negara said it will stop building coal-fired power plants after 2023 and phase out coal for electricity by 2056, enabling Indonesia to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2060.
At COP 26, the Asian Development Bank launched the Energy Transition Mechanism, or ETM, that will accelerate Indonesia's and the Philippines' transitions to clean energy.
Paul Butarbutar, executive director of the Indonesia Renewable Energy Society, welcomes the ETM and how it will help in financing the renewable energy sector.
Another constraint is the Indonesian government's rule that more than 40 percent of a solar photovoltaic project must be composed of locally made equipment. Butarbutar said local production of components, like solar modules and batteries, remains limited and these are more expensive than imported items.
#338
The notion that climate change measures and a transition to clean energy caused the current fossil fuel price rise is a "political talking point', according to an adviser on energy security in the US State Department.
Amos Hochstein, senior adviser for global energy security at the State Department said that the current global energy crisis is different from previous ones. He said it happened because one aspect of the energy value chain is priced "extremely high".
As one of the global energy security advisers to US President Joe Biden, Hochstein said major energy companies majors should contribute more to accelerating energy transition to renewables rather than investing more in fossil fuels to solve the crisis.
"This just happened, and here we are (that it's) not only that we are having an oil crisis," Hochstein said during a recent webinar on energy transition held by the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS).
"It is oil and natural gas, and it is coal, and it is metals, and it is electricity prices, and it's across the board," he said.
The price of natural gas in the US "never rises that much," Hochtstein said. Europe "is experiencing record heights in natural gas prices, and not a momentary spike, and then coal prices are rising" in Asia. "It's a combination of all of these things."
One of the popular explanations for the global energy crunch is that the pandemic led to underinvestment in fossil fuels, but Hochstein challenged that assertion.
For example, because of COVID-19, demand for crude oil and gasoline dropped, so the oil price collapsed, producers cut production, which was understandable, he said. However, the producers, such as OPEC, were restoring production very slowly, not keeping up with a rebound in demand that was faster than expected.
"We are seeing our economic recovery, and as a result, demand for energy is going up, and the supply side hasn't been there," Hochstein said.
"I don't think underinvestment is really the cause right now. ... I would say that this [energy crisis] underscores the need for hastening and making the [clean-energy] transition more effective and more efficient and faster," he said.
Hochstein said he was concerned that persistently high energy prices could threaten the economic recovery. But he insisted that the best way to avoid "the continued cycle of dependency on fossil fuel" and "crisis because of prices" is to "start making big commitments" to invest in renewables and the green economy to accelerate the energy transition.
With different energy sources, "even in the early stages of the transition, we won't be as beholden to, or rather these price shocks won't have as big an impact on economic shocks as they are (having) right now", Hochstein said.
Hochstein also mentioned that the concept of "energy security" was an evolving process.
"So, the energy security of the future is going to be not who controls oil and gas, but who controls the inputs into a solar panel cell or into an electric vehicle battery. And technology is going to change, so the minerals are going to change," Hochstein said.
"As we go into a future of electrifying everything," the world will need "a well-diversified system", he said.
Otherwise, "we are all going to pay the same price that we paid before".
"Price shocks for our cars and for electricity grids and for solar panels, and insecure delivery systems and supply chains that can be abused politically or just because of constraints in supply chains," he said.
Hochstein identified the Rome G20 and COP26 as necessary "strategic dialogues" among world leaders on the energy transition issue at the international level.
Chen Xu, president of the China General Chamber of Commerce - U.S.A. (CGCC), expressed a similar view at a forum last week.
Xu said that the current energy crisis "demonstrates the importance of strengthening the development of green energy supplies to promote environmental protection and reduce economic dependency on fossil fuels".
Xu identified energy solutions and combating climate change as "common ground for the new US-China relations to be built upon".
Xu also expressed the importance of a global initiative toward a green economy.
"It is, with the utmost importance for all countries, led by the US and China, to create a collective agenda and establish a new agreement on environmental protection - a new green economy. That will benefit all citizens of the globe," said Xu.

#339
Negotiators who have gathered at the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties, or COP 26, to find ways to ensure that the world meets its climate targets have been invited to put their faith in banks and global investors to save the planet.
In an initiative that has been greeted with skepticism from climate campaigners, a coalition of banks, insurance companies and investment firms committed $100 trillion of private capital to help the world meet net-zero carbon emissions targets by 2050.
The idea is that these big spenders-they include some of the biggest international banks-will direct their clients' money toward planet-saving investments and shun the fossil fuels that are contributing to global warming.
So far 450 financial institutions, spread across 45 countries, have signed up to the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero, a coalition convened by the United Nations in April under the leadership of Mark Carney, the UN's special envoy on climate action and finance.
Carney, the Canadian former head of the United Kingdom's central bank, said, "We now have the essential plumbing in place to move climate change from the fringes to the forefront of finance so that every financial decision takes climate change into account."
The theory behind the idea is that governments alone do not have the resources to fund the energy transition and that private money is vital to ensuring its success.
However, the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero has been the target of criticism from climate campaigners because it allows the loophole of continuing to finance fossil fuel extraction during the transition.
Carney believes big investors will have an interest in funding a clean energy transformation because that is where future profits lie. He said there was no reason investors backing low-carbon projects should have to make do with lower returns.
Despite this lure of future profits, big banks were reported ahead of COP 26 to be resisting any commitment to end financing of all new oil, gas and coal exploration projects this year.
Putting big investors in charge of saving the planet might seem tantamount to putting a fox in charge of the henhouse.
Anyone who lived through the 2008 financial crisis can recall that it was prompted by the reckless mortgage investments of big banks looking for easy profits. It was left to governments to use taxpayer money to bring the world financial system back from the brink.
Left to its own devices, investment money inevitably seeks out the most profitable projects, regardless of the implications for wider society. Big tobacco and big oil are among the sectors that have sought to maximize their profits by resisting pressure to limit the damage they cause.
Developed capitalist societies have also tended to prioritize the concept of shareholder value, in which returns on investment are seen as more important than the goods and services any given company produces or the way it treats its employees and customers.
That raises the question of whether the world can rely on the goodwill of asset managers and big corporations to do the right thing when it comes to the climate issue, or whether legislation will be required instead.
Carney acknowledged ahead of COP 26 that a privately funded green transition plan would also require governments to implement clear and credible net-zero policies.
"This includes carbon pricing, bans on internal combustion vehicles, national targets to phase out fossil fuel subsidies, and mandatory climate-related financial disclosures," he wrote in an opinion piece in the Financial Times.
He invited investors to assess who was part of the proposed$100 trillion green transition revolution and to ask whether it includes their bank, insurer, mutual fund manager or pension fund. His remarks were an invitation to investors themselves to keep the banks and asset managers to their commitments.
Investors and the corporations they finance have had to burnish their green credentials in recent years, reflecting pressure from ethical investors who demand societal benefits as well as a return on their money.
Business leaders as well as world leaders have descended on Glasgow for COP 26 in part to convince customers and investors that they are doing their bit for the planet.
Some climate campaigners have dismissed such tactics as "green-washing", a phenomenon linked more to image building than to genuine climate action. Activists challenge the credibility of banks that continue to finance fossil fuels.
While the jury is still out on whether COP 26 will be judged as a success, Swedish activist Greta Thunberg and her supporters have already declared it a failure. Perhaps with the banks in mind, she declared: "It should be obvious that we cannot solve the crisis with the same methods that got us into it in the first place."
#340
In the flurry of climate-related materials published last week during the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties, or COP 26, one annual study was among the most worrisome.
The World Meteorological Organization's "State of the Climate 2021" report brought into sharp focus the fact that climate change is no longer tomorrow's challenge-the impacts of global warming are playing out all around us.
Extreme weather events are the new norm, the report said. This year, Canadian glaciers melted rapidly, months' worth of rain fell in just hours in parts of Asia, Europe experienced severe flooding, and Madagascar remains in the grip of climate-induced drought and famine.
It was against this backdrop that COP 26 opened in Glasgow on Oct 31. Negotiations are scheduled to end on Friday, though many previous climate conferences have run over.
The ultimate aim of COP 26 is to ensure that nations meet the targets laid out in the Paris climate agreement, and ensure that global warming is kept under 2 C compared with pre-industrial levels, and preferably close to 1.5 C. New International Energy Agency analysis indicates that if COP 26 commitments are met, global warming could be held to 1.8 C.
"This is a landmark moment: It is the first time that governments have come forward with targets of sufficient ambition to hold global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius," IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol said.
At COP 26, 114 countries, including China, have agreed to halt and reverse deforestation over the next decade. In addition, more than 100 nations signed on to a global partnership to reduce methane emissions by 30 percent by 2030.
In addition, COP 26 President Alok Sharma said that developed nations are on course to raise $500 billion in climate financing for developing regions over the next five years, and 23 nations committed to targets for the first time to eventually phase out coal power generation.
The conference also witnessed pledges on net-zero carbon emissions and updated emissions reduction targets-known as nationally determined contributions-from large emitters including India and major emerging markets such as Nigeria.
China followed up its earlier pledge to peak carbon emissions before 2030 and reach carbon neutrality before 2060 with an updated nationally determined contribution and detailed action plans to deliver on its emissions targets.
The Energy Transitions Commission estimates that, in order to meet the Paris goals, carbon dioxide emissions need to be cut from the 43 gigatons that they could reach on a "business as usual" path to around 21 gigatons by 2030.
If implemented, some of the COP 26 pledges could make substantial inroads into closing this gap, said Adair Turner, chairman of the commission.
"The commitment to end deforestation, if supported by appropriate finance and delivered, would itself result in 3.5 gigatons of emissions reductions," Turner said. "Add it all up with the (nationally determined contributions) and the sectoral commitments, and we are probably on a path to about 9 gigatons of reductions out of the 22 needed."
Negotiators will next tackle the transportation sector and the built environment, including high emissions industries such as steel, aviation and shipping.
Turner said that, regardless of the outcome of commitments in these areas, the 22 gigaton goal will not be met. "We're not going to be able to go home from Glasgow saying 'job done'."
The IEA's Birol warned that there is a difference between words and action.
"Ambitions count for little if they are not implemented successfully," Birol said.
Zhang Jun, China's senior envoy to the United Nations, wrote on Twitter, "Responding to climate change requires unbending determination and sustained action, not empty slogans."
#341
With China expanding many programs to achieve "dual carbon" goals and high-quality development, Nexans, a global player in energy transition, is banking on the country's fast-growing energy, smart manufacturing, city and transportation sectors to achieve robust growth.
Many opportunities have arisen from the massive transformation of China's power sector including market structure reforms, an accelerated shift from coal to green power, and more grid investment such as energy storage. This will create huge market space for Nexans to drive growth in the country, said Donny Yu, president and CEO of Nexans Greater China.
"Power grid and offshore wind market segments will be our priorities, because of the long-term trend of increasing demand in electricity. Demographic trends, changing consumer preferences and policy drivers at both China's national level and the European level are expected to see electricity consumption grow by more than 60 percent over the next two decades," he said.
The executive said it is not only urban grids that are changing. Big changes are also happening at sea. Subsea cables are redrawing the energy map, linking wind farms to the land and connecting nations to each other.
Nexans has just unveiled the new cable harness production facility for the offshore wind industry in Tianjin. The facility will increase Nexans' production capacity in China to contribute to increasing renewable energy production in the country's energy mix and bolster the high-quality development of China's clean energy value chain.
Meanwhile, the group has strengthened its involvement in China's fast-paced nuclear new build program by gaining a large contract from State-owned China Nuclear Energy Industry Corporation to supply specialized nuclear cables for two new projects, namely the No 7 and No 8 power units at the Tianwan Nuclear Power Plant in Lianyungang, Jiangsu province, and the No 3 and No 4 power units at the Xudabu Nuclear Plant in Huludao, Liaoning province.
As 2021 marks the beginning of China's 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25), Yu said that innovation is expected to be the key policy focus. The ongoing energy transformation in China and its carbon neutrality pledge present opportunities for foreign companies like Nexans.
Since traditional energy-intensive methods can no longer sustain the high-quality development of the world's second-largest economy, the Chinese government has adopted a new growth engine restructuring the economy using green technologies.
The country has further improved its policy framework for achieving climate-related goals, including unveiling a master working guideline in October that aims to elevate energy efficiency to an advanced international level and lift non-fossil energy consumption to over 80 percent of its total by 2060.
"Our innovation will run through the entire electrification value chain from generation and transmission to distribution and usages during the period of 2021-2024, helping customers make the energy transition smoother, faster and more cost-effective, ensuring the safety of the future energy system, reducing electricity costs, and maintaining energy sustainability," said Yu.
Due to its relatively hard-to-meet power supply demand by only using conventional ways of power transmission, or relying on traditional technology to increase transmission capacity, Yu said that mega cities in China need high load density in electricity and have higher requirements for power supply and transmission than other areas.
Under such circumstances, he said Nexans, as a global leader in high temperature superconductor technology for power grid applications, is eager to introduce such an efficient technology into China, because superconductor cables increase the delivered power supply by using existing ducts at lower voltage levels and without any joule loss.
This eliminates the need for disruptive civil engineering works and minimizes the land occupied by transformer stations.
Supported by more than 25,000 employees in 38 countries and regions across the world, Nexans saw its sales revenue amount to 5.7 billion euros ($6.61 billion) and operating margin reach 193 million euros in 2020, according to information released by the Courbevoie, France-headquartered group.
Apart from expanding its production capacity in China, Yu said the company is working closely with leading mobile network carriers and equipment vendors to develop new infrastructure solutions that will help mobile operators meet the challenge of rolling out 5G coverage, both outdoors and indoors, as quickly and cost-efficiently as possible.
"Industry 4.0 has been on Nexans' agenda for the last four years. The long-term goal is to be able to use all of a factory's available data and settings to manage the manufacturing base in real time and improve performance," he said.
The group has already embraced digitalization at some of its sites, using 3D printing, big data and virtual reality, and selecting some of its profit drivers and leading factories for a pilot program.
To take its digital journey to the next level, Nexans has partnered with Schneider Electric on a joint pilot program, which is set to deliver results by the autumn of 2021, with the aim of reaping the benefits at all the group's industrial sites worldwide.
These include an up to 80 percent reduction in maintenance time by implementing predictive maintenance solutions as well as a 15 percent cut in energy costs.
While many countries are seeking practical measures to mitigate the impact caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and put their economic growth on a firmer footing, Yu said that the ongoing fourth China International Import Expo, held in Shanghai from Nov 5 to Nov 10, has great significance for foreign companies to better reach their customers, expand market channels and identify potential investment opportunities, as well as boost innovation.
"The CIIE has been successful on all three previous occasions and has become an international forum for the world to share," he said.
"Supported by the CIIE, China has taken the initiative to expand imports and pool resources around the world for high-quality development."
The continuously improving business environment offers huge opportunities for multinational corporations to expand their global footprint and optimize the capacity and agility of their supply chains. Nexans is honored to witness the progress and take advantage of the favorable policies and environment, he added.
Against a backdrop of a sharp decline in global cross-border direct investment, there has been significant growth in foreign direct investment in China. Global capital inflows into the country surged 19.6 percent year-on-year to 859.5 billion yuan ($134.33 billion) during the first three quarters of this year, data from the Ministry of Commerce showed.
Despite the pandemic-induced turbulence in the market and the faltering global economic recovery, China will continue to attract foreign investors in the coming years, thanks to its strong economic recovery and resilience, huge and lucrative market and its concerted efforts to improve the business environment, said Zhou Mi, a senior researcher at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation in Beijing.
#342
State-owned enterprises nationwide have come up with aggressive pumped storage plans, stepping up efforts to promote the development of power storage, which is believed to generate multi-billion dollar business opportunities.
China Southern Power Grid, one of the country's two major power grids whose business covers Guangdong province, the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, Yunnan province, Guizhou province and Hainan province, said it will invest 200 billion yuan ($31.26 billion) in the next 10 years in constructing pumped storage projects, which could enable the consumption of 250 million kilowatts of clean energy in the five regions in the southern and southwestern parts of China.
The company is pushing forward construction of three pumped-storage hydropower stations in Guangdong and the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region with a total investment of 24 billion yuan and a designed annual power generation capacity of 4.8 billion kilowatt-hours. The five regions will see a total pumped storage capacity of 14 million kilowatts by 2025, it said.
Pumped storage hydropower is the most common type of energy storage in use today. It saves excess power by using it to pump water from a lower reservoir to an upper one at night when electricity demand is low, and releasing it to generate power during the day when demand is high.
State Grid Corp of China, the largest power provider in the country, said earlier the company has constructed 21 pumped-storage hydropower stations during the 13th Five-Year-Plan period (2016-20) with a total installed capacity of 28.53 million kilowatts.
The company will continuously push forward the construction of pumped-storage hydropower stations during the 14th Five-Year-Plan period (2021-25) and will invest more than 100 billion yuan to build several pumped hydro storage plants across the country with a total installed capacity of 20 million kilowatts. The company will see its installed capacity for pumped storage reach 50 million kilowatts by 2025, it said.
The government said in an action plan for carbon dioxide peaking by 2030 that it will come up with favorable policies to spur development of this type of energy storage with a new round of medium- and long-term development plans for pumped-storage hydropower stations.
Other companies including China National Nuclear Corp and China Three Gorges Corp are also laying out medium- to long-term development plans for pumped-storage hydropower stations, and refining policies and mechanisms to spur development of this type of energy storage in response to the action plan.
The blueprint said that by 2025, installed capacity of new types of energy storage will reach 30 gigawatts or more. By 2030, installed pumped-storage hydropower capacity will hit approximately 120 gigawatts. Provincial-level electrical grids will be equipped with peak load response capacity of 5 percent or more, it said.
Peng Caide, chief engineer with the China Renewable Energy Engineering Institute, a think tank under China's National Energy Administration, said increasing pumped storage hydropower capacity is vital to promote green energy transition in China.
"As the use of wind and solar power increases, the market prospect of power storage is very promising," said Peng.
Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, echoed his view, adding that pumped hydro energy storage will see an increase in its market share as it is becoming cost competitive.
"Developing energy storage is vital in China's transition toward one that is dominated by renewable energy, while mitigating the impact of new energy's randomness, volatility, and intermittence on the grid," said Peng.
Peng suggests the country develop a batch of large-sized pumped storage hydropower in areas where nuclear and new energy were developed since this would lead to a win-win result.
A forecast released by CITIC Securities said development of new types of power storage and pumped-storage hydroelectricity is set for explosive growth during the 2021-25 period.
#343
More Chinese households will switch to clean energy to heat their homes this year, official data showed on Friday.
By the end of 2021, the country is expected to transform over 28 million households from coal-burning to clean heating in north China's Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and the Fenhe-Weihe Plain, Ministry of Ecology and Environment official Wu Xianfeng told a press conference.
The figure rose from about 25 million at the end of last year, Wu said, adding that clean heating contributes approximately 30 percent to the country's air quality improvement.
To ensure an adequate supply of clean energy, the country will also step up measures to stabilize natural gas prices and tilt subsidy policies toward rural, low-income populations, Wu added.
The clean energy transition is one of China's approaches to curbing air pollution. In 2020, China's average concentration of ambient particulate matter, or PM2.5, declined 28.3 percent from 2015, while the percentage of days with good air quality rose 5.8 percentage points from 2015.
#344
Warming target of 1.5 C looms as challenge of the century
The stakes are stratospherically high heading into the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties, or COP 26, which opens in Glasgow on Sunday.
World leaders, industry heads, academics, celebrities and climate campaigners will gather in the Scottish city for two weeks of intense debate on global warming.
The event is a diplomatic meet, trade expo and focal point for demonstrations all rolled into one.
President Xi Jinping has said that climate change is "nature's alarm bell for humanity", and there is a broad consensus among the attending delegations that this alarm is now deafening.
United Kingdom Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who is hosting COP 26, has described the conference as a turning point for mankind, and United States climate envoy John Kerry said the meeting was "the last best chance" to avoid environmental catastrophe on a global scale.
In Glasgow, leaders will negotiate how best to achieve and accelerate goals laid out in Paris in 2015, when an agreement to keep global warming to below 2 C, but preferably 1.5 C, was struck.
The success of COP 26 will largely hinge on what countries can agree in terms of domestic targets, as well as cross-border mechanisms and financing to curb emissions.
Ahead of COP 26, most nations submitted their domestic goals for emissions reductions, known as Nationally Determined Contributions, or NDCs.
However, during the negotiations in Glasgow, there will be a huge "elephant in the room", as the sum of these NDCs is not sufficient to close the so-called emissions gap.
The Climate Action Tracker estimates that to stay on course for 1.5 C warming by mid-century, the world must collectively reduce emissions by 20 billion to 23 billion metric tons of those made annually by 2030.
The NDCs submitted last year and this year will serve to narrow this gap by just 4 billion tons, according to the Tracker, an independent scientific analysis produced by two research organizations tracking climate action since 2009.
Separate estimates recently released by the UN found that a total emissions reduction of 55 percent by 2030 is needed to keep the 1.5 C target in sight, while current NDCs have the world on course for a mere 7.5 percent reduction.
Adair Turner, a member of the House of Lords in the UK who chairs the Energy Transitions Commission, or ETC, said, "Over the last year, most major emitters have committed to achieve net-zero emissions by mid-century.
"We are getting closer to that objective. But if you look at the NDCs, which have been submitted ahead of COP 26, they are far from adequate to give us even a 50/50 chance of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, or a 90 percent chance of limiting it to 2 degrees."
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called for "more ambition from every country" in their NDCs, as current targets have set the world on a "catastrophic pathway" for 2.7 C of global warming.
"This must stop. This must be reversed," he said during the recent Pacific Islands Forum.
Ambitious pledges
Some of the world's major economies have made ambitious emissions reductions pledges, including net-zero targets, in the months leading up to the conference.
By 2030, the UK aims to reduce emissions by at least 68 percent compared to 1990 levels. The US has committed to halving emissions by 2030, while China has pledged to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.
China's special climate envoy Xie Zhenhua said during a virtual news conference on Oct 19 the nation would "fight its hardest" to achieve emissions and neutrality targets over the coming decades. He said COP 26 provides an opportunity to construct "road maps for actionable policies and measures" and to ensure that countries "honor words with real deeds".
On Tuesday, the State Council, China's Cabinet, released an action plan for carbon dioxide peaking before 2030. By that year, the share of non-fossil energy consumption will be around 25 percent, and carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP will drop by more than 65 percent compared with the level registered in 2005, according to the plan.
Asher Minns, executive director of the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research at the University of East Anglia in the UK, said net-zero pledges will have an impact despite being voluntary and non-binding.
"Anecdotally, I would say that net-zero ambitions can focus minds, and some have been backed up with policy action and economic incentives-in the UK for example," Minns said.
Net-zero pledges from major economies appear to have placed pressure on industry as well as some of the slow movers on emissions reductions.
Australia, for example, was criticized for submitting an NDC last year that was unchanged from its previous commitments. The nation has now committed to a net-zero target for 2050, with Prime Minister Scott Morrison saying that modeling outlining emissions reductions will be released "eventually".
Turner, from the ETC, said the net-zero pledges are very important, as "once a government has committed to a net-zero target, company commitments follow".
He cited the example of China Baowu Steel Group Corp, which has committed to achieving emissions neutrality by 2050, immediately following China's 2060 net-zero pledge.
"The company is now developing clear plans to get there, with progress already in the 2020s," Turner said.
Ajay Gambhir, a climate economist at Imperial College London, said the absence of pledges from India, the world's third-largest emitter, would surely be a talking point at COP 26.
"India is yet to submit a new NDC, which is the most glaring thing right now, as its current NDC is easy to meet," Gambhir said. "India has made no net-zero target announcement yet either, so many eyes will be on that."
Delegates at the conference will also be tasked with negotiating cross-border action on climate change.
Financing crucial
Patricia Espinosa, executive secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, has said that COP 26 can only claim success if global climate financing targets are met.
In 2015, developed nations agreed to raise $100 billion in annual financing by last year to support developing countries mitigate the effects of climate change and phase out fossil fuels. That target is yet to be met, and delegates are expected to negotiate a new 2025 target from a floor of $100 billion.
Gambhir said: "This money is critical, as even though there's a clear rationale for tackling climate change, there are still costs to be borne. If there aren't clear and credible plans to finally provide this money, and then increase it later in the decade, we won't be on track to steer emerging economies off fossil fuels, and that makes 1.5 C much harder."
Turner said there also needs to be "greater clarity on the $100 billion commitment", as this figure does not include "all that is needed".
"The total financial flows required by developing countries are far higher, more like $500 billion, but most of the finance required is not a gift, but debt and equity investment that will get a return delivered by development banks and the private sector," Turner said. "What China does, for example, via the China Development Bank is more important than any 'developed country' promise."
A further point of international cooperation that remains unresolved is Article 6 of the Paris climate agreement, which covers carbon markets and other mechanisms to incentivize emissions reductions. Failure to reach agreement on Article 6 cast a shadow over negotiations at COP25 in Madrid.
Gambhir said: "This was a must-do in Madrid, yet didn't get done. There's always another chance at the next COP, but it will be disappointing and disheartening if Article 6 doesn't get fully agreed."
Some commentators have questioned if Article 6 needs a total rethink, as there is such a lack of consensus on the best way to achieve a workable system for carbon markets.
Turner said, "I am not convinced that Article 6 is nearly as important as some people suggest, and indeed we have to recognize dangers in the Article 6 approach.
"If the only way we get finance to flow from rich to poor is because rich countries take less action to reduce their own emissions, and instead buy credits from other countries, we will take the pressure off developed countries to drive the technologies which will lower the cost of decarbonization for everyone."
Zheng Zeguang, China's ambassador to the UK, feels that developed nations must respect the situation in different countries, especially those nations still undergoing industrialization and urbanization.
"Developed countries should take the lead in reducing emissions. They should not pin all the responsibilities onto China and developing nations," Zheng said.
Laurent Fabius, who chaired COP21 in Paris, said that putting a price on carbon "is probably the most efficient tool to use for our common goals".
"What strikes me is that on all these issues, carbon pricing is one of the keys, and may be the key," Fabius said during a recent virtual meeting of the Task Force on Carbon Pricing in Europe and the International Finance Forum.
"But it is true to say that carbon pricing will not be discussed as such in Glasgow, mainly because there is no international agreement on this very important question," he added.
Several nations and regions, including China and the European Union, have moved ahead with their own carbon trading mechanisms.
Vitor Gaspar, director of the International Monetary Fund's Fiscal Affairs Department, said that even if a comprehensive international agreement was untenable, a carbon pricing mechanism involving the six largest emitters "would be enough to get us on track".
A carbon market taking into account the signatories of the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative, or BRI, has been suggested by Zhang Jianyu, executive director of the BRI Green Development Institute.
"Belt and Road countries account for over 60 percent of global carbon emissions. Faced with the prominent common challenge of climate change, a BRI carbon market could be introduced to reduce the overall emissions of BRI countries," Zhang said.
#345
Experts called for urgent action on stopping the rise of carbon emissions and building a common approach to global carbon pricing during a webinar organized jointly by the International Finance Forum, the Task Force on Carbon Pricing in Europe and the Paulson Institute.
"We do think stopping the rise of carbon emissions globally and reversing the trend in the near future is a necessity to succeed in the fight against global warming. And it is feasible, if we adopt the proper means," said Edmond Alphandery, a former French Minister of Economy and chairman of the European Task Force on Carbon Pricing.
"We consider that the price of carbon is a major device, because the objective is to shift from fossil fuels to low-carbon resources."
The webinar brought more than 40 major policymakers, business leaders, experts and high-ranking officials from across the globe, who shared their expectations for the upcoming 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties in Glasgow, which will start on Oct 31.
They called for urgent action on stopping carbon emissions and wide and in-depth discussions on global carbon pricing as an incentive toward net-zero carbon output at Glasgow.
The participants also exchanged news and views on the impact of the European Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, the global approach to decarbonization, technologies such as carbon capture and storage, removing methane from the atmosphere and nuclear power as an alternative to fossil fuel in energy transition. Some of the topics are likely to be discussed at the Glasgow COP26 by world leaders as well.
Chairman of the Paris COP21 Laurent Fabius said he hopes the climate summit can achieve four objectives to fulfill the goals of the Paris Agreement.
According to him, first it is necessary to reach a consensus on the methodology for carbon pricing. The second is to guide more private capital to finance the fight against climate change. Enhancing climate ambitions would be the third step and it would be followed by several important evolutions in the Paris Agreement, including connecting climate change and biodiversity, social justice and more sectors taken into consideration by the international community.
"In all these expectations, carbon pricing is the key," Fabius said. "Glasgow will not make a decision on carbon pricing, but it would be at the background of many discussions. And it is very important whatever the results of Glasgow are, the US, China and the European Union must keep on trying to develop carbon pricing and to educate the public and decision-makers that it is probably the most efficient tool for our common goals."
Based on the latest research from the commission, Energy Transitions Commission Chairman Adair Turner listed six possible technical actions that could help limit the rise in world temperatures to 1.5 C, including electrification of road transport, reducing methane emissions from fossil fuels, eliminating coal use from major industrial sectors, ending deforestation and actions related to climate financing in steel, shipping and cement.
Turner said carbon pricing can play a crucial role in helping achieve net zero by 2050 in these sectors and will help reduce emissions significantly in the 2020s.
"The net-zero steel initiative aims at achieving net zero in the steel sector by 2050, along with a 35 percent reduction in emissions even in the 2020s if there was a serious carbon price. So I think we really need to focus not on carbon pricing as a generalized concept, but on how it can accelerate decarbonization of these hard to obey sectors," Turner said.
Vitor Gaspar, director of the fiscal affairs department of the IMF, said carbon pricing is clearly in the background of discussions.
"Carbon pricing is observable and easy to understand, so it is a natural instrument for global cooperation. We have shown in our research an agreement with just six large emitters in alphabetical order, Canada, China, European Union, India, the United States and the United Kingdom would be enough to put the world on a good path to limit temperature increases to 2 C," Gaspar said.
He added carbon prices are providing the grammar of the argument for global cooperation.
"I think the bottom line delivery at Glasgow should be the rulebook of the Paris Agreement that makes the nationally determined contributions, the monitoring, the reporting and the verification transparent and accountable," said Jairam Ramesh, former minister of environment of India.
As a veteran negotiator of the previous COP, he called for the need for "a sense of realism as to what the COP can deliver and cannot deliver."
According to him, people should not get sidetracked into net zero by 2050 or 2060 when very few countries will be held accountable, suggesting it was necessary to focus on some closer targets in the 2020s and 2030s such as the milestones on transport, energy transition and in industries that need strategy and international agreements.
He also expected greater recognition of the interaction between biodiversity and climate change and agreement on what countries should do for biodiversity and biodiversity management, which he said are crucially important.
Apart from the consensus on the importance and positive impact of carbon pricing, the opinions of the participants from the EU and emerging markets such as India and Brazil were widely divided on the impact of CBAM in Europe. Participants from European countries want the CBAM to be a tool to adjust competitiveness and an incentive for low-carbon innovation. However, officials from India, for example, regard CBAM as a tool of protectionism.
Martin Wolf, the chief economic commentator at the Financial Times, pointed out CBAM may affect the competitiveness of products from different countries and warned it may trigger trade wars if countries get tougher on the issue.
As for the global leadership required for the successful fight against climate change, Zhu Xian, vice-president and general sectary of IFF, pointed out an acceptable time frame and clear targets sector by sector are needed to ensure the commitments of different countries are really implementable, particularly in emission-intensive sectors.
Zhu, also former vice-president of the World Bank and New Development Bank, said strong leadership is also needed for affordable and reliable alternative solutions that are crucial for the ongoing energy crisis, adding it will also help avoid the pushing back of fossil fuels to solve temporary problems.
Zhu also reminded all participants on providing financing to developing countries in their fight against climate change, promoting low carbon technology development and innovation.
"My own point is certainly technology development innovation, and this should be driven by the private sector and by business communities. But on the other hand, governments have a role to support technology's application and utilization, as well as its commercialization."
#346
Shanghai event highlights clean energy and climate-sensitive project financing
China will continually optimize its financial policies to achieve low-carbon development targets, officials and experts said at a key event in Shanghai over the weekend.
In this context, focus will be on promoting energy transition and involving climate-related factors in assessing financial risks.
The move is part of a high-level policy guidance issued over the weekend to meet carbon neutrality goals by 2060.
In addition, an action plan for peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and a set of policies and measures in key industries are in the pipeline, said Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change affairs.
The 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties, or COP26, will be held in Glasgow, Scotland, from Sunday to Nov 12. "Multilateralism" is a key principle for all parties to achieve the global warming control targets as determined in the Paris Agreement.
Countries should take common, fair, but diversified responsibilities depending on different capabilities and national conditions, Xie said at the 2021 Bund Summit in Shanghai on Saturday, which was organized by China Finance 40 Forum.
Developed countries should honor their investment commitment of $100 billion per year to transfer to developing countries, as well as guide the investment of public funds. "Based on that, they need to actively develop green finance, optimize policy framework and information disclosure systems and lead social investment to low-carbon development fields," he said.
A senior official of the People Bank of China, the central bank, said at the summit that China will build a system of standards for financing the energy transition. So-called transition finance should support the fields that meet standards of coal consumption reduction and substitution, while financing for highly polluting projects and those that entail high energy consumption should be withdrawn.
Compared with green finance, transition finance will be more flexible and effective to meet the huge financing demand for transforming the country's energy structure, said Liu Guiping, deputy governor of the PBOC.
Liu also disclosed that the PBOC is conducting stress tests at financial institutions to evaluate the potential influences of climate-related factors and assess potential risks.
Promoting the transition toward a low-carbon development model has gained broad support from policymakers to scholars, and from business leaders to multilateral organizations.
Former US secretary of state Henry Kissinger said in a video dialogue at the summit that right now, despite the conflicts, competition and differences among nations, issues like public health and climate change underscore global common interests.
China has decided to stop financing coal energy projects, primarily for the benefit of humanity, and "I think it is a constructive contribution for the sake of all of humanity," said Kissinger.
A latest research report from China's central bank showed that in the long run, the low-carbon transition will foster economic growth and support price stability. In the short term, however, the transition will probably raise production costs, drive up prices of traditional fossil energy and exacerbate inflationary pressure, said Zhu Jun, head of the PBOC's international department.
The recent rise in energy prices globally reflects the instability of energy supply caused by climate change and extreme weather events, so the risk of low-carbon transition should be well controlled, said Zhu.
The PBOC started to include climate-related risks in the monetary policy system since 2016. In the next stage, it will focus on streamlining green finance taxonomies, improving climate-related information disclosure regulation and conducting stress tests related to climate risks.
"Internationally, China and the European Union are studying to promote the convergence of green taxonomies, and plan to release a common catalogue of sustainable finance in the near future, which will provide a basis for forming a globally consistent green taxonomy system," she said.
#347
The global transition to clean energy is still far too slow to meet climate pledges and risks fueling even greater price volatility, warned the International Energy Agency on Wednesday.
"We are not investing enough to meet for future energy needs, and the uncertainties are setting the stage for a volatile period ahead," said IEA chief Fatih Birol.
"The social and economic benefits of accelerating clean energy transitions are huge, and the costs of inaction are immense."
In its annual World Energy Outlook report-published just weeks before the COP 26 summit in Glasgow, the IEA calculated that investment in clean energy projects would need to be more than trebled over the next decade if those pledges are to be met.
At the summit, countries will come under pressure to commit to decisive action to limit global warming to 1.5 C above preindustrial levels, as pledged in the landmark 2015 Paris climate accord.
The Paris-based IEA, which advises developed countries on energy policy, said renewables such as wind and solar energy continue to grow rapidly, and electric vehicles set new sales records last year, even as economies were bent under the weight of COVID-19 lockdowns.
However, "this clean energy progress is still far too slow to put global emissions into sustained decline toward net zero" by 2050, which the agency believes will help limit the increase in global temperatures to 1.5 C.
The agency analyzed two possible scenarios.
The first looked at the measures that governments had already put in place or specific policies they were actively developing.
Though almost all of the increased energy demand until 2050 could be met by low emissions sources, the IEA said annual emissions would still be roughly the same as today, as developing economies build up their nationwide infrastructure.
Under this scenario, temperatures in 2100 would be 2.6 C higher than preindustrial levels.
The second scenario looked at promises made by some governments to achieve net-zero emissions in the future, which would see a doubling of clean energy investment and financing over the next decade.
If these pledges were fully implemented in time, demand for fossil fuels would peak by 2025, and global CO2 emissions will fall by 40 percent by 2050.
'Bumpy ride'
"Reaching that path requires investment in clean energy projects and infrastructure to more than triple over the next decade," Birol said. "Some 70 percent of that additional spending needs to happen in emerging and developing economies."
The IEA argued that the extra investment might be less of a burden than some might think.
"More than 40 percent of the required emissions reductions would come from measures that pay for themselves, such as improving efficiency, limiting gas leakage, or installing wind or solar in places where they are now the most competitive electricity generation technologies," it said.
The report also highlighted that insufficient investment was contributing to uncertainty over the future.
"Spending on oil and natural gas has been depressed by price collapses in 2014-15 and again in 2020. As a result, it is geared toward a world of stagnant or even falling demand," said the IEA.
"At the same time, spending on clean energy transitions is far below what would be required to meet future needs in a sustainable way."
That means energy markets could face a "bumpy ride" if investment in renewables is not increased, the IEA said.
#348
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, also known as Sinopec, announced on Friday its Fuling shale gas field has produced more than 40 billion cubic meters, or bcm, of shale gas since it was put into commercial operation in 2014, a record for shale gas cumulative production in the country.
The project has helped maintain the company's clean energy supply capacity while contributing to the country's energy security, against the backdrop of China striving to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060 and peak carbon emissions by 2030, the company said.
Located in Chongqing, the Fuling shale gas field has stepped up production this year. It has also made China the first country to achieve shale gas commercial operation outside North America. With a daily gas production reaching 20 million cubic meters, the gas field could meet the gas demand of 40 million households, said the company.
An analyst said shale gas has the potential to become a major part of China's domestic gas supply while the project will also contribute to China's carbon neutrality goal, helping the country achieve its target in terms of decarbonizing the industry and power sectors by switching from coal to gas in the coming years.
"Shale gas has played an increasingly important role to ramp up gas production in the country," said Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF.
"Fuling, the first large-scale commercial shale gas field, has ensured gas supply to consumers along the Yangtze River and also pushed forward clean energy transition."
China's decarbonization drive has been prompting the strategic repositioning of domestic companies, including the country's oil giants Sinopec, China National Petroleum Corp and China National Offshore Oil Corp.
According to Li, the skyrocketing prices of imported gas may push China to further ramp up domestic gas output.
Global gas prices have climbed to their highest level in seven years, as a shortage of gas this winter is anticipated. Rebound of consumption more quickly than production resumption after the COVID-19 pandemic slump last year also contributed to the record natural gas price.
"While international natural gas prices have been on wide rides, increasing domestic shale gas output can help China to ensure gas supply security," she said.
China's natural gas demand in 2020 reached 324 bcm, of which 189 bcm, or 58 percent, was from domestic supply.
#349
China's pledge to help other countries with green energy while ceasing to build new coal-fired power projects abroad will help other developing nations in Asia reduce their dependence on coal and meet their commitment to cut carbon emissions, analysts said.
They said that China's commitment to low-carbon growth is crucial as Southeast Asian governments prepare their climate commitments ahead of the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 26), which will be held from Oct 31 to Nov 12 in Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom.
Analysts hailed Chinese President Xi Jinping's speech at the general debate of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, in which he said that China will support other developing countries' green and low-carbon energy projects.
"If the global fight against coal was a novel, President Xi's statement is the paragraph that opens the epilogue," said Renato Redentor Constantino, executive director of the Institute for Climate and Sustainable Cities, a Manila-based climate policy think tank.
Constantino said Xi's statement is a "monumental signal" to Southeast Asia's governments to accelerate the region's transition to renewable energy.
"After decades of addiction to fossil fuels, it will certainly be challenging for governments in the region to phase out coal in a time frame that allows Southeast Asia's power sector to establish irreversible pathways to modernization. But having China as a partner will be nothing less than a massive boost that can transform visions into reality," he said.
Cesar Carlito Baclagon, regional finance campaigner for Asia of 350.org, an international environmental group, congratulated China on its "wise decision" to stop support for external coal investment.
"A push against coal power plants sends a clear message that China and the rest of Asia, especially member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, can play a leadership role in building a fossil-free future," Baclagon said.
He expressed his hope that Xi's statement will encourage the regional bloc "to push other wealthy countries to step up and get their financial institutions to do better" at the COP 26.
Tata Mustasya, climate and energy campaign strategist at Greenpeace Southeast Asia, welcomed China's move, noting that financing from China and other wealthier countries is needed to build green energy infrastructure in Southeast Asia.
"The key is energy transition, because 60 percent of global emissions come from the energy sector," Mustasya said.
Prior to the pandemic, Southeast Asia was one of the world's fastest growing regional economies, boosting energy demand. The International Energy Agency said that growing ownership of household appliances and air conditioners, as well as increasing consumption of goods and services, have increased electricity demand by more than 6 percent annually over the past 20 years.
Greater demand for electricity has also expanded the construction of coal power plants. The IEA said Southeast Asia is one of the few regions of the world where coal-fired generation has been expanding, with close to 20 gigawatts of new coal-fired generating capacity under construction, mostly in Indonesia, Vietnam and the Philippines.
Some Southeast Asian governments have made a commitment to decarbonize, but analysts noted that such statements have to be matched with concrete policies and programs.
Indonesia, Southeast Asia's biggest economy, is also among the world's biggest coal producers and exporters. Indonesia is also the biggest electricity consumer in the region and coal accounts for around 60 percent of the country's electricity generation. The capital city of Jakarta alone is surrounded by more than 20 coal-fired power plants within a 100-kilometer radius and is one of the most polluted cities in Southeast Asia, according to Greenpeace.
State-owned utility Perusahaan Listrik Negara said in May that it will stop building coal-fired power plants after 2023 to meet Indonesia's goal to slash emissions. But environmental experts believe that the country must stop building power plants now and start investing in renewable energy sources to meet its climate goals.
In the Philippines, Energy Secretary Alfonso Cusi said last year that the country is imposing a moratorium on new coal-fired power plants and will allow 100-percent foreign ownership in large-scale geothermal exploration, development and utilization projects.
In Malaysia, Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob highlighted low-carbon development in a plan he presented to the nation's legislature on Sept 27.
He said carbon pricing and a carbon tax will be introduced so that Malaysia can become carbon neutral by 2050.
Matthew Ashfold, associate professor and head of the School of Environmental and Geographical Sciences at the University of Nottingham Malaysia, said the prime minister's commitment to transform Malaysia into a carbon-neutral country indicates that there's a "wider consensus" in ASEAN to move away from coal-powered plants over the longer term.
Ashfold said if ASEAN wishes to meet its commitment to the Paris Agreement, it has to reduce its dependence on coal as soon as possible given the "multidecade lifetimes" of power plant infrastructure.
"So ideally new green energy infrastructure is not only seen as an alternative to new coal power stations, but it will be sufficient to also allow the early retirement or retrofitting of existing coal power stations," he said.
Ashfold said that apart from meeting climate goals, a shift to renewable energy sources can reduce health impacts from fossil fuel-related air pollution in ASEAN member nations, citing a February 2020 report from Greenpeace which revealed that air pollution has caused more than 100,000 premature deaths in Southeast Asia.
"Such huge, diffuse costs are typically not accounted for when evaluating the economic case for investments in fossil fuel technologies," Ashfold said.
#350
'Promising' industry to play key role in helping nation achieve green goals
With increasing use of wind and solar power in China, market prospects of pumped storage hydropower are more promising and could generate multi-billion dollar business, industry experts said.
Increasing pumped storage hydropower capacity is vital for promoting the green energy transition in China, responding to extreme situations and ensuring energy security, said Peng Caide, chief engineer with the China Renewable Energy Engineering Institute, a think tank under China's National Energy Administration.
Developing energy storage is an important step in China's transition from fossil fuels to a renewable energy mix, while mitigating the impact of new energy's randomness, volatility, intermittence on the grid and at the same time managing power supply and demand is also key, he said.
"With increasing use of wind and solar power, the market prospect of power storage is very promising," Peng said.
Renewable energy accounts for an ever-increasing share of the market, and it is expected the maximum peak-valley difference of the power system will exceed 1 billion kilowatts by 2035. A new electrical power system with new energy as the mainstay of the power system, in turn, will have higher criteria for pumped storage hydropower, he added.
Peng said China has substantial potential to tap pumped storage hydropower capacity, as it only accounts for 1.4 percent of the country's power system, far behind the average of 10 percent in developed countries.
He suggests coming up with a batch of large-sized pumped storage hydropower in regions where nuclear and new energy were developed since this would achieve a new model of complementary and win-win bundling development.
Pumped storage hydropower is the most common type of energy storage in use today. It saves excess power by using it to pump water from a lower to an upper reservoir at night when electricity demand is low, and releasing it to generate power during the day when demand is high.
China's National Energy Administration (NEA) in September issued a middle and long-term development plan for the country's pumped storage hydropower sector covering the period from 2021 to 2035, eyeing an expansion in China's pumped storage hydropower volume to 62 million kilowatt-hours (kWh) at the end of 2025, as part of efforts to boost clean energy and reach carbon emission reduction goals.
The development plan said 120 million kWh of pumped storage hydropower will enter service by 2030 and multiple pumped storage hydropower companies will be formed by 2035, while also enhancing the protection of natural resources to ensure sustainable development and create social capital to boost local communities, it said.
CITIC Securities forecast that development of new types of power storage and pumped-storage hydroelectricity is set for explosive growth during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25).
Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University, said pumped hydro energy storage as a significant technology and basic equipment to support new power systems will see an increase in its market share as it is becoming cost competitive. It is also advanced in technology development, which comes against the backdrop that solar and wind energy are taking up more in power generation under China's green commitment goals.
Power storage provides uninterrupted supply, maintains an efficient power flow and is more than ever prominent in China's transition to green energy, although renewable power sources can fluctuate with weather conditions, he said.
China aims for renewable power to account for more than 50 percent of its total electricity generation capacity by 2025, up from 42 percent at present.
The nation now sees 52.3 GW of pumped hydro storage under construction or planned and is by far the largest contributor of Asia-Pacific energy companies, which have approximately 71 gigawatts of pumped hydro energy storage projects in the planning or construction stage at the start of 2021, said IHS Markit's power assets tracking service.
In addition to State Grid Corp of China, the largest power provider in the country, and many other operators who have aggressive pumped storage plans, local governments are also stepping up efforts to promote the development of power storage.
After Shanxi province started to receive the first batch of applications for new energy plus power storage demonstration projects in August, Hebei province also vowed to push forward construction of power storage projects besides electricity generation plants and actively promote a proper distribution of power storage system on grids in the same month.
The province also promised steps to promote cost cuts and large-scale commercial application of lithium-ion battery projects.
#356
To prepare for the upcoming 2022 Beijing Winter Olympic Games, a newly built hydrogen fueling station in the capital city's northwestern Yanqing district went into operation last month.
The hydrogen fuel produced by the station-with a pressure rating of 70 megapascals-is low-carbon, renewable and clean, and it can be used as a direct replacement for oil and gas, said Wang Yunlong, head of the station.
The refueling station is the second to open in Yanqing for the Games, the first having opened in July last year.
Wang said the new station can refuel 60 to 100 coaches or 200 small and medium-sized buses per day, and that on a full tank, a hydrogen fuel cell vehicle can travel about 500 kilometers.
"Meanwhile, the station will implement universal infrared communication protocols and introduce functions such as automatic detection, control, billing and scanning code payment," he said.
"It takes about half an hour to fill up each vehicle," Wang said, adding that the next step will be to further develop hydrogen energy technology to better serve the Games.
Of late, the capital has accelerated its development of hydrogen power.
According to a plan released by the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Economy and Information Technology on Aug 18, the city has taken the lead in research on hydrogen energy, and by the end of last year, it was home to 150 enterprises and institutions engaged in hydrogen energy research and development.
Under the plan, developing hydrogen power is important to support and promote the energy transition of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, and it will lay a solid foundation for the coordinated regional development of the hydrogen power industry.
It set the goals of cultivating five to eight enterprises of international influence and of reducing the capital's carbon emissions by 1 million metric tons by 2023.
Some 37 hydrogen refueling stations are expected to be built over the next two years, and 3,000 hydrogen-fueled vehicles are set to hit the roads.
The use of hydrogen-fueled vehicles during the Games is also part of the plan, and 212 fuel cell cars will be put into service in Yanqing. At the end of the Games, the vehicles will be used as buses to connect Yanqing with downtown Beijing.
The Games will be held in Beijing and co-host city Zhangjiakou in Hebei province, from Feb 4 to 20.
#351
As the country's natural gas consumption keeps climbing in recent years, China's oil giants have been ramping up natural gas production and gas storage peak-regulating capacity to ensure sufficient gas supply in the country.
China National Offshore Oil Corp, the country's top offshore oil and gas driller, said its Deep Sea No 1 gas field-China's first large-scale, ultra deep water gas field independently explored and developed domestically-entered operations in September, and is expected to provide more than 3 billion cubic meters of natural gas annually.
With a maximum operational water depth exceeding 1,500 meters and proven geological reserves of natural gas exceeding hundreds of billions of cubic meters, Deep Sea No 1 will play an integral part in the nation's efforts to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, it said.
The other two oil majors in the country, China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, known as Sinopec, and China National Petroleum Corp, have also been accelerating their gas output, with a batch of major oil and gas discoveries announced during the first half.
Sinopec, the world's largest refiner by volume, announced that as part of its efforts to step up gas storage facility construction and enhance gas storage peak-regulating capacity, its first gas storage tank in Shandong province-Shengli oilfield Yong-21 gas storage tank-began operations and started trial gas injections recently. It also plans to further accelerate gas storage construction in oil fields in central, northwestern and northeastern parts of the country.
CNPC said it has produced 70 percent of China's natural gas output each year and it has also been accelerating the development of China's unconventional shale gas reserves. The company saw its production of natural gas exceed that of oil for the first time last year, with more than 130 billion cu m of gas production.
Insiders said the dynamic gas output growth of China's national oil giants and their further plans to ramp up production show these companies' commitment to speed up energy transition by pivoting to gas.
The three national oil and gas companies all see natural gas remaining a pillar of growth in their core business and pledged to expand their existing natural gas business, said Cao Lujia, an analyst at BloombergNEF. BloombergNEF estimates domestic gas output will account for 55-57 percent of consumption over 2021-25. It also accounts for the majority of gas supply in China.
#352
EU's climate action chief upbeat over cooperation with China
Frans Timmermans was delighted this summer when he learned China had launched its national carbon emissions trading market in an attempt to fight climate change.
The executive vice-president of the European Commission for the European Green Deal is also proud that the European Union's Emissions Trading System, or ETS, is inspiring other countries and regions to develop similar systems to make their economies less dependent on carbon. The ETS was set up in 2005 as the world's first such system.
Timmermans said the ETS, which operates in all EU member states plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, and covers about 40 percent of the EU's greenhouse gas emissions, has been extremely successful.
"I saw this summer China had also introduced an emissions trading system, and I want to really salute that step," he said.
Timmermans believes that bilateral exchanges and cooperation on climate might have helped China introduce its system.
The EU shared its technical expertise in recent years when China piloted emissions trading plans in several cities to pave the way for its national system.
China's national carbon market, launched on July 16, includes more than 2,000 companies in the power generation sector and covers over 4.5 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide annually. It replaced the EU's ETS as the world's largest such mechanism.
"This is a way to continue our cooperation on concrete measures and concrete steps forward," said Timmermans, who was named one of Time magazine's 100 Most Influential People of 2021 on Sept 15.
Timmermans, the Dutch foreign minister from 2012 to 2014, has been the No 2 person in the European Commission since 2014, when he served as first vice-president to Jean-Claude Juncker.
Timmermans said China has historically played a crucial role in getting the world to commit to keeping the rise of global temperatures below 2 C.
"We would not have a Paris Agreement without China playing a very, very active role in coming to a conclusion," said Timmermans, who is also European Commissioner for Climate Action.
The Paris Agreement reached in 2015 aims to limit the global temperature rise this century to 2 C from pre-industrial levels while pursuing efforts to further curb it to 1.5 C.
Timmermans is convinced there is a deep understanding in China that the country needs to continue to play a historic role in getting the world to come to terms with the climate challenge.
On Friday, a United Nations report said the global average temperature will rise by 2.7 C by the end of the century even if all countries meet their promised emission cuts. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned, "The world is on a catastrophic pathway".
Timmermans emphasized the need for a strong commitment from all major emitters to make the 26th UN Climate Change Conference, or COP26, in Glasgow, Scotland, a success. The conference is scheduled for Nov 1 to Nov 12.
He said speeches by President Xi Jinping and Xi's recent phone call with United States President Joe Biden gave him hope that China would make a major contribution to success in Glasgow.
Xi pledged at the 75th session of the UN General Assembly in September last year that China would aim to peak its carbon emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.
In a phone call with Biden on Sept 10, Xi said China and the US should advance cooperation on climate change and other issues on the basis of respecting each other's core concerns and properly managing differences.
While China is the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, with about 27 percent of the global total, its per capita emission figure is slightly higher than the average for the EU's 27 member states and only half that the US, which is by far the largest historical carbon emitter.
Timmermans said nations, especially major powers, will act if they consider it in their interest, adding that they will not act just to please others, and this is also the case for China.
He said the EU has set a good example to show countries that came late to the industrialized world that there is a way to grow economically and still reduce emissions, adding that the EU cut its emissions by 24 percent while growing its economy by more than 60 percent in the past 20 years.
Timmermans said the EU and China can work together, especially in energy transition, an area which China has been advancing rapidly.
China is the world's largest investor in and producer of renewable energy, from wind to solar to hydropower, as well as electric cars. The nation is still the world's largest consumer of coal, but coal use is declining in its energy mix.
Xie Zhenhua, China's special envoy for climate change affairs, told a meeting early this month the proportion of coal in China's primary energy consumption fell from 72 percent in 2005 to 56.8 percent last year. The proportion of non-fossil energy in its primary energy consumption reached 15.9 percent, up from 7.4 percent five years earlier.
He described China's plan to achieve carbon neutrality from its emissions peak in just 30 years as the shortest in the world, compared with 70 years for the EU and 45 years for the US.
Timmermans said the EU and China can work together in many fields, from renewable energy to electric cars-not just for themselves, but to also help the developing world leapfrog and bring noncarbon-based energy to its people.
"I see very many areas where the European Union and China can develop their relationship to make this transition go smoothly, and to do it in the interests of our people and also to leave no one behind," he said.
Countries cannot afford to isolate themselves to new technological developments, Timmermans said.
"We need to share them as soon as possible," he said, adding that this must be done on a level playing field where investments are protected.
Timmermans feels that the use of coal should stop as soon as possible. Instead, the future of the steel industry lies in green steel, where the heat needed to make the alloy comes not from coal, but green hydrogen produced from solar and wind power.
"I think this is an incredible opportunity for the European Union, but especially an incredible opportunity for China," he said, clearly referring to China's massive steel production capacity, which accounts for more than half the world's total.
#353
Natural gas is expected to become the largest fossil fuel in China by 2050, according to a top company official.
Natural gas will play a pivotal bridging role for energy transition in the country and remain robust in the upcoming 20 years, said Ma Yongsheng, president of China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, or Sinopec, during the Tsinghua PBCSF Economic Forum on Carbon Neutrality held in Beijing on Thursday.
Natural gas consumption in China is expected to reach 620 billion cubic meters per year by 2040 and become the largest fossil energy source in the country by 2050, he said. 
As China aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060 and carbon peak by 2030, global oil demand is expected to reach its peak by 2030 while that of natural gas will be 2040, Sinopec predicts. 
Sinopec has been eyeing further developments in the clean energy sector. It plans to invest 30 billion yuan ($4.66 billion) during the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025) period in hydrogen-related business, including hydrogen refueling stations and hydrogen storage facilities construction, all of which is believed to achieve carbon dioxide reduction of more than 10 million tons. The company also plans to build 1,000 hydrogen refueling stations, 5,000 charging and battery swap stations and 7,000 distributed photovoltaic power generation sites during the 14th Five-Year Plan period. It has already built 22 hydrogen refueling stations in 14 provinces and cities, including Guangdong, Shanghai and Hainan.
#354
China's top three major oil and gas companies saw both their revenue and profit increase during the first half of this year on the back of an economic rebound from the COVID-19 pandemic and the rapid recovery of the petrochemical products market in the country.
China National Petroleum Corp, the country's largest oil and gas company, reported a net profit of 53.04 billion yuan ($8.18 billion) during the first six months of this year, compared to a net loss of 29.98 billion yuan during the same period last year. First-half revenue was up 29 percent at 1.197 trillion yuan, it said.
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, known as Sinopec and the world's largest refiner by volume, reported 39.15 billion yuan in net profit, compared to 23 billion yuan in loss during January-June last year. Its revenue rose 22.1 percent to 1.26 trillion yuan, following a recovery in global oil prices and on robust demand for fuel and petrochemical products.
China National Offshore Oil Corp, China's top offshore oil and gas driller, said its first-half net profit more than tripled from a low base last year, reaching 33.33 billion yuan, up 221 percent from a year ago, the highest since the first half of 2014. Revenue jumped 48 percent from a year earlier to 110.23 billion yuan, it said.
Analysts attributed the growth in profit and revenue to the rebound in demand brought by the global economic recovery, the rising average price of international crude oil and the steady growth of China's economy.
The country's oil and gas companies have been operating steadily with operational quality and efficiency significantly improved during the first half of this year, helping the companies achieve ideal interim performance, said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
"The fuel demand in the country has picked up with transportation restriction gradually easing, while the State-owned refineries have also ramped up production; and demand for refined oil products is also increasing," he said.
"The government's goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2060 also encourages the consumption of the natural gas, with a batch of major oil and gas discoveries announced during the first six months of this year."
Luo said the country's three major oil and gas players have also accelerated exploration investment intensity during the past few years with a series of major breakthroughs. Their mastery of oil and gas exploration technology is also on the rise, which is believed to further inject momentum into the reform of the country's future oil and gas systems and mechanisms, he said.
Li Ziyue, an analyst with BloombergNEF, agreed, saying the robust gas output growth of China's national oil giants and further plans to ramp up production show these companies' commitment to speed up energy transition by pivoting to gas.
"Steadily-growing natural gas output is also critical to ensure energy security as gas demand surges," she said.
The three major oil and gas companies are also shifting their focus from fossil fuel energy to the new energy business against the backdrop of China's aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060 and peak carbon emissions by 2030.
They pledged to further develop new energy, with the green and low-carbon transformation already achieving positive progress.
While CNPC aims to continuously push forward the construction of distributed photovoltaic gas stations, and charging and battery swap stations, Sinopec assured it will accelerate the building of the distributed photovoltaic power stations and step up construction of hydrogen refueling stations.
For its part, CNOOC said it has big plans in wind and solar power. It aims to invest 5 to 10 percent of its total investment in the solar and wind businesses each year to make sure the wind and solar sectors achieving major breakthroughs during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25), said Wang Dongjin, chairman of CNOOC.
The three energy giants also pledged to step up the pursuit of transition in their operations by sharpening focus on non-fuel retail business while boosting overall revenue margins.
#355
Coal-loving PM under pressure as calls grow for stronger Australia commitment
One day in February 2017, Scott Morrison, then Australia's treasurer, brought a lump of coal into the parliament. It was an unlikely, if eye-catching, totem of the government's energy policy. And this was how Canberra was going to keep the nation's lights on and power prices low.
"This is coal," Morrison told lawmakers. "Don't be afraid."
The baffling incident was seen by many as undermining discussion of important topics such as renewable energy and climate change. By that time Australia, one of the world's largest emitters of greenhouse gases, had already signed the Paris Agreement.
However, four years later, the government appears yet to take the climate crisis seriously, even after a landmark United Nations report this month warned that catastrophic global warming is occurring far more quickly than previously forecast.
Morrison, who has been Australia's prime minister for three years, has rejected growing calls to adopt more ambitious emissions targets, insisting the country is doing enough to tackle climate change.
"Australia is doing its part," Morrison said on Aug 10, signaling he would not adopt a net-zero emissions target. "I won't be signing a blank check on behalf of Australians to targets without plans."
But a report released on Aug 9 revealed that Australia's climate change response is one of the worst among developed countries.
Titled "Back of the pack: An assessment of Australia's energy transition", the report by a think tank in Canberra found that "Australia is unique in being the only country of the top energy consuming nations to have exhibited an increase in energy use per person over the period 2005-2019".
Former UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon also said Australia is "out of step" with the world.
"Australia's current goal of a 26 to 28 percent reduction on 2005 levels by 2030, and the absence of a national zero emissions target, is out of step with its states, its trading partners, and other comparable nations," Ban said last week.
The world is ramping up spending to counter climate change. According to a recent report by the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, a nonprofit organization in Britain, 61 percent of countries in its sample have committed to net-zero emissions.
Australia is one of just a few countries that have not made a firm commitment to the target, which has sparked protests within its borders.
Some daubed protest messages on Australia's parliament and the prime minister's residence right after Morrison's rejection of meaningful action.
"We take responsibility for our actions and are willing to face the consequences, unlike our politicians who won't even acknowledge they have a duty of care to the children of this country," one of the protesters said.
Australia's foot-dragging has even drawn criticism from allies, which have urged it to strengthen its emissions-reduction targets in the leadup to a UN-sponsored climate change summit in Glasgow in November.
Major economies are "absolutely critical" to cutting global emissions "and I urge Australia to step up with big, bold commitments ahead of COP26 in November", Alok Sharma, a UK lawmaker and president of the upcoming summit, said on Thursday.
Experts and green groups worldwide hope that the UN report this month drafted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will spur Australia to get on the right track.
"Scott Morrison's refusal to commit to a net-zero target-and instead just hope for the best-flies in the face of this imminent threat," said Gavan McFadzean of the Australian Conservation Foundation, an environmental group.
The report by the IPCC warned that the average global temperature is likely to cross the 1.5C warming threshold within the next 20 years-bringing more intense droughts, heat waves, floods and storms.
In July, UNESCO proposed that Australia's Great Barrier Reef be listed as endangered owing to severe coral bleaching, poor water quality and inaction on climate change.
Ma Jun, founding director of the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, an NGO, called on Australia to take climate change more seriously and beef up its efforts in tackling global warming.
"We really need to put all hands on deck and to act fast enough to prevent the worst of climate change," Ma said.
#356
China is leading the world in transitioning to a clean energy future and its manufacturing of green technology is why, said an article published Monday by the BBC.
China generates more solar power than any other country, which is "a sign of where the country is heading," and its wind power installations were more than triple those of any other country in 2020, according to the article.
"China is already leading the global energy transition," the article quoted Yue Cao of the Overseas Development Institute as saying. "One of the reasons we are able to deploy cheaper and cheaper green technology is China."
China also ranks seventh in the world for its percentage of electric car sales; given its huge size, the country makes and buys more electric cars than any other country "by a considerable margin," the article said.
Studies show that emissions over the lifetimes of electric vehicles are typically below those of petrol and diesel ones, which matters as transport is responsible for around a quarter of carbon emissions from fuel combustion, with road vehicles being the largest emitters, according to the article.
In addition to switching to green energy, China's land is getting greener. "Here again, there is encouraging news. China is getting greener at a faster rate than any other country, largely as a result of its forestry programs designed to reduce soil erosion and pollution," the article noted.
China will cut emissions as much as possible and absorb what's left, through a combination of different approaches, and increasing the area of land covered in vegetation will help, as plants absorb carbon dioxide, according to the article.






























