#1
Global renewable energy capacity grew by the fastest pace recorded in the last 20 years in 2023, which could put the world within reach of meeting a key climate target by the end of the decade, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA).
Additions to the world's renewable energy grew by 50% last year to 510 gigawatts (GW) in 2023, the 22nd year in a row that renewable capacity additions set a new record, according to figures from the IEA.
The "spectacular" growth offers a "real chance" of global governments meeting a pledge agreed at the Cop28 climate talks in November to triple renewable energy capacity by 2030 to significantly reduce consumption of fossil fuels, the IEA added.
The IEA's latest report found that solar power accounted for three-quarters of the new renewable energy capacity installed worldwide last year. Most of the world's new solar power was built in China, which installed more solar power last year than the entire world commissioned the year before, despite cutting subsidies in 2020 and 2021.
Record rates of growth across Europe, the US and Brazil have put renewables on track to overtake coal as the largest source of global electricity generation by early 2025, the IEA said. By 2028, it forecasts renewable energy sources will account for more than 42% of global electricity generation.
Tripling global renewable energy by the end of the decade to help cut carbon emissions is one of five main climate targets designed to prevent runaway global heating, alongside doubling energy efficiency, cutting methane emissions, transitioning away from fossil fuels, and scaling up financing for emerging and developing economies.
Fatih Birol, the IEA's executive director, said: "It's excellent news to see the historical and spectacular growth of renewable energy." He added that while the report shows that global renewable capacity is already on course to increase by two-and-a-half times by 2030, it is not yet expected to reach the Cop28 goal of tripling renewables.
"We're not there, but we're not a million miles away," Birol said. "And governments have the tools needed to close the gap."
Birol downplayed concerns that fast-rising costs facing wind developers in the US and Europe will be a drag on the industry's long-term growth. The combination of higher interest rates and supply chain costs has forced some developers to cancel big offshore wind projects, and raised concerns over the future of the technology.
????? ?????
"I would be very careful not to confuse a cyclical increase in costs with a structural increase in costs. Costs will continue to come down in the industry, as the cyclical costs of today begin to ease," Birol said.
Emerging and developing economies will face challenges accessing finance, strengthening governance and creating robust regulatory frameworks which will be essential to reducing investor risk and attract investment, the IEA said, which may include establishing new targets and policies in countries where they do not exist yet.
"For me, the most important challenge for the international community is rapidly scaling up financing and deployment of renewables in most emerging and developing economies, many of which are being left behind in the new energy economy. Success in meeting the tripling goal will hinge on this," Birol said.
#2
Wind turbines and solar panels have overtaken fossil fuels to generate 30% of the European Union's electricity in the first half of the year, a report has found.
Power generation from burning coal, oil and gas fell 17% in the first six months of 2024 compared with the same period the year before, according to climate thinktank Ember. It found the continued shift away from polluting fuels has led to a one-third drop in the sector's emissions since the first half of 2022.
Chris Rosslowe, an analyst at Ember, said the rise of wind and solar was narrowing the role of fossil fuels. "We are witnessing a historic shift in the power sector, and it is happening rapidly."

The report found EU power plants burned 24% less coal and 14% less gas from the first half of 2023 to the first half of 2024. The shift comes despite a small uptick in electricity demand that has followed two years of decline linked to the pandemic and Ukraine war.
"If member states can keep momentum up on wind and solar deployment then freedom from fossil power reliance will truly start to come into view," said Rosslowe.
Europe is among the biggest historical polluters that have contributed the planet-heating gas that has made extreme weather more violent, but it also has some of the most ambitious targets to clean up its economy. Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, European leaders have sped up their shift to renewables with stronger rhetoric and looser permitting rules.
But while solar power has boomed, the wind industry has struggled with high inflation on top of continued opposition from politicians and the public. The EU installed a record 16.2GW of new wind power capacity in 2023, according to the lobby group Wind Power Europe, but this was about half of what was needed that year to meet its climate targets for the end of the decade.
Scenarios modelled by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and International Energy Agency show that most of the electricity needed to power a clean economy will come from rays of sunlight shining on panels and gusts of wind spinning turbines.
The Ember report found 13 member states generated more electricity from wind and solar than from fossil fuels in the first half of the year. Germany, Belgium, Hungary and the Netherlands hit that milestone for the first time, the authors found.
Andrea Hahmann, a scientist at Denmark Technical University who co-wrote an IPCC report chapter on energy systems, said the development was "significant but not surprising".
"Strong winds were prevalent during the first six months of 2024 in northern Europe, where most wind energy is generated," she said. "The 'crossing of the lines' demonstrates that the EU's electricity transition is possible, and we should not give in to pessimism. The renewable energy targets that must be met are substantial but achievable with the proper policy measures."
 This article's headline was updated on 30 July 2024 to make clear that it is wind and solar energy that make up 30% of EU electricity. With other renewables such as hydropower included, the proportion would be 50%. The graphics were also updated to make clear that the source data came from the whole of the EU, rather than just 13 member states.
#3
China is expected to account for almost 60% of all renewable energy capacity installed worldwide between now and 2030, according to the International Energy Agency.
The IEA's highly influential renewable energy report found that over the next six years renewable energy projects will roll out at three times the pace of the previous six years, led by the clean energy programmes of China and India.
It found that the world's renewable energy capacity is on course to outpace the 2030 goals set by governments to roughly equal the power systems in China, the EU, India and the US combined.
Fatih Birol, the executive director of the IEA, said: "If I could sum this [trend] up in two words they would be: China, solar."
China will have over half of the world's renewables by the end of the decade. The solar power surge is thought to have slowed China's coal power pipeline, which grew by 100 GW of new power plant permits in 2022 and 2023. In the first half of 2024 China issued permits for only 12 new projects totaling 9.1 GW, according to Global Energy Monitor.
The growth in solar capacity to 2030 will account for 80% of all new renewable power added globally by the end of this decade, according to the IEA. It expects the rollout to accelerate due to declining costs and policy support which will enable homes and businesses to invest in solar panels to reduce their electricity bills.
Wind power is also showing signs of recovering from the steep hike in interest rates and supply chain costs which has hampered the industry, particularly for capital-intensive offshore windfarms.
The IEA expects that the rate of global wind power growth will double between 2024 and 2030 compared with the previous six years. In the UK, the government has set a target of quadrupling Britain's offshore wind power by 2030 while spurring the development of floating wind turbines.
Floating windfarms are expected to be a small share of the offshore wind industry by 2030 but a new report by Renewable UK, published on Wednesday, has found that by 2050, floating turbines could provide one-third of the UK's offshore wind capacity and contribute £47bn to the economy, particularly Scottish and Welsh port communities.
Birol said: "Renewables are moving faster than national governments can set targets for. This is mainly driven not just by efforts to lower emissions or boost energy security - it's increasingly because renewables today offer the cheapest option to add new power plants in almost all countries around the world."
The green energy boom means renewables are on track to grow by 2.7 times by 2030, exceeding the goals set out by governments by nearly 25%, the report found. But this growth still falls narrowly short of the commitment made by world leaders to triple renewables by the end of the decade to cut the world's reliance on fossil fuels.
About 120 world leaders pledged to triple the world's renewable energy capacity before 2030 in a bold attempt to slash the global consumption of fossil fuels at the UN's Cop28 climate talks in Dubai last year.
Birol said it was "entirely possible" to meet the target, and added that there were three steps that global governments could take to speed up the rate at which renewable energy becomes operational.
First, global leaders need to recognise the "critical importance of building power grids" to speed up the connection of new renewable energy projects, he said. The IEA found that at least 1,650 gigawatts of renewable capacity were now in advanced stages of development and waiting for a grid connection, 150GW higher than at this point last year.
Birol added that countries needed to reduce the time it took for renewable energy developers to get permission for new projects. It can take seven years for windfarms, he said, and five years for a solar farm.
Finally, the IEA urged international financial institutions needed to do more to back renewable energy in emerging and developing economies which continued to lag behind developed countries.
"One of the biggest 'energy inequalities' I see is in sub-Saharan Africa where one in two people don't have access to reliable electricity. It has enormous solar power potential and yet across the whole region there is the same solar capacity as in Belgium. It is frustrating," he said.
#4
The amount of wind and solar power under construction in China is now nearly twice as much as the rest of the world combined, a report has found.
Research published on Thursday by Global Energy Monitor (GEM), an NGO, found that China has 180 gigawatts (GW) of utility-scale solar power under construction and 159GW of wind power. That brings the total of wind and solar power under construction to 339GW, well ahead of the 40GW under construction in the US.
The researchers only looked at solar farms with a capacity of 20MW or more, which feed directly into the grid. That means that the total volume of solar power in China could be much higher, as small scale solar farms account for about 40% of China's solar capacity.
The findings underscore China's leading position in global renewable energy production at a time when the US is increasingly worried about Chinese overcapacity and dumping, particularly in the solar industry.
China has experienced a boom in renewables in recent years, encouraged by strong government support. Xi Jinping, China's president, has stressed the need for "new quality productive forces", a slogan which signifies a desire to pivot China's economy towards technology and innovation. Xi has said that "new quality productive forces" includes strengthening green manufacturing.
Between March 2023 and March 2024, China installed more solar than it had in the previous three years combined, and more than the rest of the world combined for 2023, the GEM analysts found. China is on track to reach 1,200GW of installed wind and solar capacity by the end of 2024, six years ahead of the government's target.
"The unabated wave of construction guarantees that China will continue leading in wind and solar installation in the near future, far ahead of the rest of the world," the report said.
However, analysts have cautioned that still more renewable capacity will be needed if China is to meet its target of reducing the carbon intensity of the economy by 18%, which is an important factor in reducing emissions. Carbon intensity refers to how many grams of CO2 are released to produce a kilowatt hour of electricity.
Earlier analysis suggests that China will need to install between 1,600GW and 1,800GW of wind and solar energy by 2030 to meet its target of producing 25% of all energy from non-fossil sources.
Between 2020 and 2023, only 30% of the growth in energy consumption was met by renewable sources, compared with the target of 50%.
"It is obviously important for China to keep on adding more renewable energy to meet its targets," said Li Shuo, the director of the China Climate Hub at the Asia Policy Institute in Washington DC. "But it's not as simple as you just keep building and it will be solved ... [because] there is no sign that the country is trying to steer away from its coal consumption."
Previous analysis by GEM and the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, a thinktank, found that approvals of new coal power plants increased fourfold in 2022-2023, compared with the previous five-year period of 2016-2020, despite a pledge in 2021 to "strictly control" new coal power. Growth in total coal consumption increased from an average of 0.5% a year to 3.8% a year between the two time periods.
Geopolitical tensions such as the war in Ukraine, which focused many countries' attention on energy supplies, and major power cuts in parts of China in recent years, have increased Chinese officials' concerns about energy security.
China's power grid remains reliant on coal, which officials see as necessary to mitigate the intermittency of renewable energy. And officials often see the coal industry as being a safe way to boost local GDP figures, although clean energy sectors are now the biggest driver of China's economic growth, accounting for 40% of GDP expansion in 2023.
Analysts say that better storage and grid flexibility is necessary to efficiently use the increasing volume of clean energy being generated on China's wind and solar farms.
The Chinese government is aware of this challenge, naming lithium-ion batteries as one of the "new three" technologies important for creating high-quality growth, along with electric vehicles and solar panels. Last year, $11bn was invested in grid-connected batteries, an increase of 364% on 2022.
The GEM report also highlighted China's lead in actually building planned renewable energy infrastructure. The 339GW of wind and solar that has reached the construction stage represents one-third of proposed projects, far surpassing the global construction rate of 7%.
"China's renewable energy pipeline is two times larger than the rest of the world," Li said. "But the question we should increasingly ask ourselves is, how come the rest of the world is so slow?"
#5
The UK's investment in renewable energy has lagged significantly behind the rest of the world in recent years, according to an analysis of global data.
The latest government figures reveal the UK's renewable capacity has fallen to an average increase of 4.45% in the past three years, compared with an average 9.67% annual increase globally.
The analysis follows the government's announcement that it will approve more than 100 new oil and gas licences.
In the UK, total renewable capacity grew by 1.96% in 2020, 3.65% in 2021 and 7.74% in 2022, averaging a capacity of just 4.45% a year - well down from the 24.26% growth recorded in 2015.
The rest of the world recorded much higher levels of growth in renewable capacity compared with the UK in the last three years. In 2020, renewable capacity grew by 10.3%, followed by 9.1% in 2021 and 9.6% in 2022. This averages a 9.67% increase, more than double that of the UK over the same period.
The Liberal Democrats' energy and climate spokesperson, Wera Hobhouse, criticised the government's failure "to invest in the greenest, cheapest and most popular form of energy" and demanded it do more, including removing restrictions on new solar and wind and empowering local authorities to support decentralised energy that will "not only bring down bills, but also provide skilled jobs for the future".
She said the figures showed the Conservative party could not be trusted with the environment. "They would rather new onshore oilfields than solar farms and wind turbines," she said.
Roger Fouquet, a senior research fellow at the Energy Studies Institute in the National University of Singapore, said that as countries such as Iceland move towards 100% renewable energy, "its investment is likely to slow down, only increasing to meet the rising demand of power". However, he noted that the UK cannot compare.
"The UK's current renewable electricity capacity is below 50%, and has a great deal of further investment to undertake to claim to be a leader in low-carbon energy systems. In fact, 45% of European economies have a higher share of renewable electricity capacity," Fouquet said.
RenewableUK, a leading non-profit energy trade association, believes the government needs to develop a plan to compete with the EU and US in a competitive renewables market.
Its executive director of policy, Ana Musat, said: "The government urgently needs to develop a comprehensive strategy for making the UK renewables sector the most attractive to global investors, so that we can continue to build new clean energy projects at scale and attract supply chain investment in key areas such as blades, cables and floating offshore wind."
The Department for Energy Security and Net Zero said: "We won't apologise for moving faster and earlier on renewable energy than many other countries, and we are glad to see that nations across Europe and the rest of the world are starting to catch up.
"We have already attracted around £120bn investment in renewables since 2010, and are expected to attract a further £100bn in net zero by 2030 - powering up Britain and supporting up to 480,000 jobs. This has meant we have increased the amount of energy coming from renewables from 6.7% in 2010 to 41.5% in 2022."
#6
Fossil fuel companies are running "a massive mis- and disinformation campaign" so that countries will slow down the adoption of renewable energy and the speed with which they "transition away" from a carbon-intensive economy, the UN has said.
Selwin Hart, the assistant secretary general of the UN, said that talk of a global "backlash" against climate action was being stoked by the fossil fuel industry, in an effort to persuade world leaders to delay emissions-cutting policies. The perception among many political observers of a rejection of climate policies was a result of this campaign, rather than reflecting the reality of what people think, he added.
 "There is this prevailing narrative - and a lot of it is being pushed by the fossil fuel industry and their enablers - that climate action is too difficult, it's too expensive," he said. "It is absolutely critical that leaders, and all of us, push back and explain to people the value of climate action, but also the consequences of climate inaction."
He contrasted the perception of a backlash with the findings of the biggest poll ever conducted on the climate, which found clear majorities of people around the world supporting measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The survey found 72% of people wanted a "quick transition" away from fossil fuels, including majorities in the countries that produce the most coal, oil and gas. Green parties and plans may have suffered reverses in some parts of the world, he said, but in others they have gained seats, and seen policies that would once have been considered radical enter the mainstream.
Governments must take note, said Hart, who acts as special adviser on climate to the UN secretary general, António Guterres. "This should alert political leaders - those that are ambitious are not only on the right side of history, they're on the side of their people as well.
"Climate appears to be dropping down the list of priorities of leaders," he said. "But we really need leaders now to deliver maximum ambition. And we need maximum cooperation. Unfortunately, we are not seeing that at the moment."
The Paris agreement, reached at Cop21 in 2015, needs to be enhanced by a requirement for new national plans on emissions reduction, the UN says. Photograph: Ian Langsdon/EPA
He warned that the consequences of inaction were being felt in rich countries as well as poor. In the US, many thousands of people are finding it increasingly impossible to insure their homes, as extreme weather worsens. "This is directly due to the climate crisis, and directly due to the use of fossil fuels," he said. "Ordinary people are having to pay the price of a climate crisis while the fossil fuel industry continues to reap excess profits and still receives massive government subsidies."
Yet the world has never been better equipped to tackle climate breakdown, Hart added. "Renewables are the cheapest they've ever been, the pace of the energy transition is accelerating," he said.
Governments should also take care to ensure that their climate policies did not place unfair burdens on those on low incomes, as poorly designed measures could hurt the poor, according to Hart. "Each country will really need to ensure its transition is well planned to minimise the impact on people and vulnerable populations, because a lot of the so-called pushback comes when there's a perception that the costs on poor and vulnerable persons are being disproportionately felt," he said.
For that reason, the UN is calling for new national plans on the emissions reductions required under the 2015 Paris agreement, in which governments must set out clearly not just their targets but how they will be achieved through policy, and what the probable impacts are.
The new national plans, called nationally determined contributions (NDCs), should be "as consultative as possible so that whole segments of society - young people, women, children, workers - will be able to provide their perspective on how the transition should be planned and well-managed, and how it will be financed", he said.
"Despite everything we see [in the form of extreme weather], we're still not seeing the level of ambition or action that the world desperately needs."
#7
The new Labour government must oversee a massive ramping up of renewable energy generation in this parliament or the UK will breach its international obligations under the Paris agreement, the government's climate watchdog has said.
The Conservative government left the country drastically off track to meet its international commitments, despite setting the carbon-cutting target before hosting the Cop26 climate summit in Glasgow in 2021, the Committee on Climate Change found in its most recent annual report.
In a damning verdict on the Tories, and Rishi Sunak's tenure in particular, the CCC found that the policies that Labour inherited would result in only about a third of the emissions cuts necessary to reach the UK's Paris agreement target of cutting carbon by 68% by 2030.
The report, compiled by scientists and experts, said the last government "signalled a slowing of pace and reversed or delayed key policies ... gave inconsistent messages on its commitment to the actions needed to reach net zero, with cancellations of, and delays and exemptions to, important policies. It claimed to be acting in the long-term interests of the country but there was no evidence backing the claim that dialling back ambition would reduce costs to citizens."
Keir Starmer's government has already begun to take steps to cut the UK's emissions further by lifting a de facto ban on new onshore wind turbines in England, greenlighting new solar farms and dropping the legal defence of a proposed new coalmine.
Labour plans to force landlords to improve the energy efficiency of the homes they rent, and to reinstate the 2030 phase-out date for sales of new petrol and diesel-driven cars, which Sunak postponed to 2035.
The CCC, in its annual progress report to parliament, published on Thursday, said much more would be needed. By 2030, offshore wind energy generation must triple, onshore wind must double and solar installations must increase by five times, it said. The use of heat pumps must rise at least 10-fold, from only 1% of households today.
Danny Gross, a climate campaigner at Friends of the Earth, said: "While the new government has made a positive start on climate action, it urgently needs to ramp up ambition on cutting emissions from homes and buildings, transport and agriculture. Every government department will need to swing behind policies for a fair, green transition to a zero-carbon economy."
Labour can take heart from the committee's finding that many of the policies needed will reduce the cost of living. Changing the way electricity is billed to consumers, by untying the charges from the gas price, would make electricity cheaper and heat pumps and electric vehicles more attractive. As the cost of low-carbon technology is falling, ramping up homegrown renewable energy is "the cheapest and fastest way to reduce vulnerability to volatile global fossil fuel markets", the report found.
There should also be a comprehensive programme to decarbonise public buildings, such as schools and hospitals, according to the report, and a suite of policies to encourage industry to move from fossil fuels to electricity for the heat needed in industrial processes, from food processing to glass-making.
More trees are needed, as is the restoration of peatlands, and workers will have to be retrained across a variety of sectors. The previous government's plans to develop carbon capture and storage will need to be brought forward, in some form.
The new government must also remove the exemption of 20% of households from the phase-out of fossil fuel boilers in 2035, the CCC advised. Labour has not yet committed to reversing this exemption.
Piers Forster, the interim chair of the CCC, said: "This government has got off to a very good start. If they can take on the 10 recommendations we made, I absolutely do think it is still possible to get to the 2030 target ... That can make everyone once more feel positive about net zero."
In the king's speech on Wednesday, Labour laid out plans for nine bills that would have a significant impact on the climate and environment, including setting up a new nationally owned energy company; renationalising the railways and bringing bus services within local authority control; promoting sustainable aviation fuel; and a planning reform bill that will make it easier to build solar farms, low-carbon housing and the other infrastructure needed to reach the legally binding target of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
Ed Miliband, the energy secretary, said: "This report lays bare the failures of the previous government. On a vast range of policy areas it says we are off track to meet our targets - and our country is paying the price with higher bills and energy insecurity.
"The good news is that this report confirms that a clean energy future is the best way to make Britain energy independent, cut bills, create good jobs and tackle the climate crisis. That is why the government is wasting no time in delivering our mission ... to make Britain a clean energy superpower."
#8
New South Wales has the largest gap between its 2030 emissions reduction goals and the present pace of renewables rollout among the states, a performance that will make it harder for Australia to meet national goals unless addressed, a new report argues.
The report, by Green Energy Markets, said NSW's legislated electricity infrastructure roadmap indicates the state would need to generate 33,600 gigawatt hours of renewable energy from projects in place by the end of 2029. 

On this score, NSW was less than halfway to its goal with forecast output from projects already committed or contracted at about 12,911GWh as of the end of 2023. Those projects amounted to just over 6GW of capacity, leaving the state with almost 7.5GW more in wind and solar farms needed to hit the target.
For Queensland, the capacity shortfall was about 2.6GW given a "remarkable" recent pace of approvals, with South Australia's at 2.445GW. Victoria was now less than 1GW shy of the needed capacity to meet its own target of 65% renewables by 2030, while Western Australia already had enough projects either under construction, contracted or government-funded to meet its goal.
The Albanese government's 82% renewable energy target for the grid by 2030 was already going to be a stretch as the federal goal was greater than what the states themselves were aiming for, the report said.
Still, as the biggest electricity generator, NSW was "the chokepoint" for the national transition off fossil fuels, said Tristan Edis, a senior Green Energy Markets analyst and an author of the report. It was time for planners "to take their foot off the pedal", he said.
NSW largely dodged major strains on its power grid this summer with heatwaves for main population centres, including Sydney, mostly limited to single-day events.
But the state's challenges may worsen in the near term. Australia's largest power station - the 2.88GW Eraring coal-fired plant - is slated to shut by August 2025. Talks over an extension continue between NSW and owner Origin, with its exit to remove about a quarter of the NSW's so-called baseload generation capacity.
The Minns Labor government said it was stepping up the pace of approvals with 18 "significant" wind, solar and battery projects getting the nod in 2023. A planning department spokesperson told Guardian Australia the state government was presently assessing 29 renewable energy projects.
"It is also awaiting development applications and [environmental statements] for more than 70 new projects from industry," the spokesperson said, adding the department aimed "to determine up to 50 new energy projects in 2024 with a combined generation and storage capacity of up to 25 gigawatts".
The NSW planning minister, Paul Scully, told the Smart Energy Council's conference in Sydney last week that average approval time for projects had fallen to just 67 days.
His estimate, though, was at odds with a Clean Energy Investment Group report that found solar farms over the past five years were taking 705 days on average to secure approval, battery projects 540 days and windfarms almost 3,500 days.
A senior executive in the renewables industry, who requested anonymity, said NSW was by the worst among the states and territories for planning approvals.
The executive cited changes to conditions once approvals had been granted that could deter future investment. These included draft wind energy guidelines that could trigger retrospective alterations, even within the state's renewable energy zones that were originally set up to streamline developments.
In the case of the Central West-Orana zone, the initial target for the amount of power that would be in excess of transmission capacity was put at 0.3% in December 2021. By 2022, however, the target for curtailment had been lifted 14-fold to 4.37%, even before limits outside the zone, such as in Sydney, were added.
"The value proposition of the CWO REZ has been seriously eroded from what was proposed in 2021," the executive said. "Intending generators are being asked to pay huge amounts to access a new network with local curtailment levels worse than the vast majority of the national electricity market [NEM] with very little protection it will not get worse over time."
A spokesperson for EnergyCo, the agency charged with implementing NSW's electricity plan, said the revised curtailment figure of 4.37% "better reflects typical curtailment in economic modelling across the NEM and optimises network efficiency, in the interests of electricity consumers".
#9
The prospects of the world staying within the 1.5C limit on global heating have brightened owing to the "staggering" growth of renewable energy and green investment in the past two years, the chief of the world's energy watchdog has said.
Fatih Birol, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, and the world's foremost energy economist, said much more needed to be done but that the rapid uptake of solar power and electric vehicles were encouraging.
"Despite the scale of the challenges, I feel more optimistic than I felt two years ago," he said in an interview. "Solar photovoltaic installations and electric vehicle sales are perfectly in line with what we said they should be, to be on track to reach net zero by 2050, and thus stay within 1.5C. Clean energy investments in the last two years have seen a staggering 40% increase."
But Birol also noted that greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector were "still stubbornly high", and that the extreme weather seen around the world this year had shown the climate was already changing "at frightening speed".
The IEA, in a report entitled Net Zero Roadmap, published on Tuesday morning, also called on developed countries with 2050 net zero targets, including the UK, to bring them forward by several years.
The report found "almost all countries must move forward their targeted net zero dates", which for most developed countries are 2050. Some developed countries have earlier dates, such as Germany with 2045 and Austria and Iceland with 2040 and for many developing countries they are much later, 2060 in the case of China and 2070 for India.
Cop28, the UN climate summit to be held in Dubai this November and December, offered a key opportunity for countries to set out tougher emissions-cutting plans, Birol said.
He wants to see Cop28 agree a tripling of renewable energy by 2030, and a 75% cut in methane from the energy sector by the same date. The latter could be achieved at little cost, because high gas prices mean that plugging leaks from oil and gas wells can be profitable.
But Birol warned that the geopolitical situation, with many nations at loggerheads over the war in Ukraine, and still frosty relations between the US and China, would make for a difficult summit.
He said: "The most important challenge [to limiting temperature rises to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels] is the lack of international cooperation. Cop28 is a critical juncture, and should send a strong signal to energy markets that governments are taking the climate seriously. They should move to reduce the consumption of unabated fossil fuels."
He also called for Cop28 to agree a doubling of energy efficiency. "To reduce fossil fuel emissions, we need to reduce demand for fossil fuels. This is a golden condition, if we are to reach our climate goals," he said.
Birol stopped short of endorsing the call that some countries have made for a full phase-out of fossil fuels by 2050 to be agreed at Cop28, but he said all countries must work on reducing their fossil fuel use.
Rishi Sunak, the UK's prime minister, last week reaffirmed his commitment to net zero by 2050, but reversed and delayed some key policies that would help to attain the goal. Sunak is also planning a large new round of North Sea oil and gas licences, despite clear advice from the IEA that no new upstream oil or gas projects should be built on the road to net zero.
Birol also refused to single out any countries, but made it clear that the richest countries should be moving much faster on renewable energy, energy efficiency, reducing fossil fuel use and bringing forward their net zero targets.
Birol said: "Advanced economies have special responsibilities in fighting climate change. What I would expect advanced economies to do is to increase their ambition further, rather than reducing it. Clean energy would create lots of new jobs and employment, and build a modern industry [needed] to have a competitive position with other countries. Industry knows that the next chapter of global industry is based on clean energy technologies."
Tessa Khan, executive director at Uplift, a campaigning organisation, said: "This [IEA report] is yet more confirmation from the world's energy experts that we can't have new oil and gas projects if we're going to stay within a safe climate, and that massively scaling up renewables is key to achieving that.
"Yet the UK is part of a tiny club of wealthy countries that while professing to lead on climate is massively expanding oil and gas production. Just five nations - the US, Canada, Australia, Norway and the UK - are responsible for over half of all planned oil and gas field developments from now to 2050."
#10
The oil industry has fought against government support for clean technologies for more than half a century, the Guardian can reveal, even as vast subsidies have propped up its polluting business model.
It lobbied lawmakers to block support for low-carbon technologies such as solar panels, electric cars and heat pumps as far back as the 1960s, analysis shows. Trade associations in the US and Europe stymied green innovations under the guise of supporting a "technology neutral" approach to avoiding the damage done by burning their fuels.
The same incumbents were happy to lobby for government support when they were getting started, and had continued to benefit from it since, said Dario Kenner, a visiting research fellow at the University of Sussex who trawled through decades of public statements from the American Petroleum Institute (API) and FuelsEurope.
"It's obviously hypocritical to call for technological neutrality when you are the dominant technology," he said.
Kenner documented dozens of examples of the oil industry pressuring governments to hold back support for renewable energy, restrict funding for the development of clean technologies and weaken environmental rules that favoured their uptake.
Lobbyists on both sides of the Atlantic argued that government subsidies for clean technologies distorted free markets. Activists say their position is "dishonest" because the oil industry benefits from tax credits and other financial help from governments, and pays for only a fraction of the damage its fuels do to people and the planet.
In 2022, the total subsidies for fossil fuels - including costs to society - came to $760bn (£592bn) in the US and $310bn (£264bn) in the EU, according to the International Monetary Fund.
The revelations were "outrageous but frankly unsurprising", said Shira Stanton from the campaign group Beyond Fossil Fuels, who was not involved in the analysis.
"It has been proven that the fossil fuel industry caused the climate crisis and deliberately lied about it as they hid the science," she said. "So finding out that they knew renewable energy was such a threat to their industry that they had to lobby policymakers to rig the market against cleaner and cheaper technology to protect profits is just par for the course."
Some interventions may have slowed the growth of technologies that scientists say are key to stopping the planet from heating.
In 1975, after a global oil crisis, the API opposed an energy saving bill that included refundable income tax credits for heat pumps in homes.
"The United States has a large resource base of conventional energy such as oil, gas and coal," it said. "Expeditious development of these supplies can make a significant contribution not only to improving US energy independence, but to create a healthy economy."
Some of the industry's early efforts to hold back competition later helped it argue that society could not do without it.
In 1967, the API protested against a bill to promote the development of electric cars with the argument that governments should "stimulate all efforts by industry to eliminate automotive pollution, rather than dedicate federal funds to the promotion of any single possible solution".
But half a century later, in 2005, its lobbyists fought a bill to support electric cars with the argument that they were not developed enough.
"The United States, and the world, cannot afford to leave the age of oil before realistic alternatives are fully in place," said Red Cavaney, the then president of the API. "It is important to remember that man left the stone age not because he ran out of stones - and we will not leave the age of oil because we ran out of oil."
An electric car charging point in London. Lobbyists on both sides of the Atlantic argued that government subsidies for clean technologies distorted free markets. Photograph: Zeynep Demir Aslim/Alamy
FuelsEurope, which has also fought support for electric vehicles for more than a decade, pushed to weaken EU fuel efficiency standards in 2017 so they would allow combustion engine cars burning alternative fuels. Critics say the low-carbon fuels with which it wants to power cars are expensive, inefficient and in such short supply that they would be better used in planes and ships, which are harder to run on electricity.
The oil industry had moved from denying climate change to derailing climate action, said Anna Krajinska, a vehicles analyst at the campaign group Transport and Environment, which was not involved in the analysis.
"The push for tech neutrality - particularly 'carbon neutral' fuels for road transport - is a disingenuous attempt to keep combustion engines burning fossil fuels," she said.
Some of the world's biggest oil companies have invested in clean energy projects as they have come under increasing pressure from activists, investors and governments. Armed with big wallets and skilled engineers, they have argued they can lead the transition to a carbon-neutral economy.
But a report from the International Energy Agency (IEA) in November found that oil and gas companies accounted for just 1% of clean energy investments. It described the sector as a "marginal force at best" in the transition.
Kenner said it was "ludicrous" to debate an individual oil company's transition plans when the industry had spent so long fighting clean alternatives that threaten its market share.
"As part of trade associations and lobby groups, they have been deliberately trying to undermine the same technologies that people want them to invest in," he said.
The IEA report found that oil and gas producers would have to spend 20 times more of the capital on clean energy - rising from 2.5% in 2022 to 50% in 2030 - to line up with the Paris agreement goal of keeping the planet from heating 1.5C (2.7F) above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century.
Christina Figueres, a Costa Rican diplomat and architect of the agreement, told the Guardian before the Cop28 climate summit in November that she used to believe the industry needed a seat at the table but had lost hope after seeing it use windfall profits since the war in Ukraine to enrich shareholders - instead of reinvesting them in clean energy.
The API and FuelsEurope said they were working to reduce emissions.
The API said: "America's natural gas and oil industry is working to address the risks of climate change and build a lower-carbon future, while simultaneously meeting the world's growing energy needs. Our members continue to make significant progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions across their operations, while also leading in the development of low-carbon solutions like carbon capture and storage and hydrogen that are critical to meeting the world's greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets."
FuelsEurope said: "FuelsEurope can state that our industry is transforming, and we have developed a comprehensive pathway of how we, together with our partners, can contribute to meeting the 2050 climate neutrality challenge. By 2050, at the latest, every litre of liquid fuel for transport could be net climate neutral, enabling so, together with all existing and proven sustainable alternative technologies, the decarbonisation of aviation, maritime and road transport, and the refinery products supplying the industrial value chain could also be net zero CO2."
Kenner compared the industry's lobbying to gas lighting companies who fought the arrival of electric street lights, and canal companies who protested against new railways. By fighting off support for emerging competitors, the industries slowed the transition to new technologies.
"We know from the history of technological change that it's often the companies with the new technologies that push it forward - it's not usually the incumbents," said Kenner. "Blockbuster video was not going to get to Netflix online streaming."
#11
If the US is to rid itself of fossil fuels then one of its primary replacements, solar energy, is going to need land. A lot of land.
The Bureau of Land Management (BLM), which oversees more of the public realm than any other federal government agency, has outlined exactly how much of western America should be made available for solar panels and their associated cables and transformers - up to 22m acres. That is roughly the size of Maine, or an area larger than Scotland.
This total, part of a new administration plan to accelerate solar energy in the US west, will give the US "maximum flexibility" to meet climate goals, the BLM said.
A smaller area of this available land, around 700,000 acres, will definitely need to be dotted with solar panels to meet a goal set by Joe Biden to have a 100% clean electricity grid by 2035. This is still a big leap from the status quo, where only around 34,000 acres of bureau land is used for solar.
Solar may currently contribute little more than 3% of the US's electricity generation but it is having something of a moment, with projects bolstered by Biden's huge tranche of clean energy subsidies. The BLM is progressing several major solar projects - the largest, in Nevada, is set to be 5,500 acres in size, enough to power more than 200,000 homes - and utility-scale solar generation is expected to grow 75% by next year compared to last, adding 79,000 megawatts of new capacity.
The scale of this growth, however, has unsettled some residents who oppose solar farms in their communities or on farmland, as well as environmentalists who fret over the fate of species such as the desert tortoise as seemingly empty habitat is upended into a new, mirrored, reality.
Even if land is used for a solar project, though, it can still be utilized for some other agricultural uses and BLM said it would prefer development to take place within 10 miles of existing transmission lines, with exclusions for habitat and cultural reasons.
Green groups say a detente can be found between the desire to protect food-producing land and habitat for threatened species while also tackling a climate crisis that menaces both people and wildlife.
"Renewable energy on public lands can be a win-win-win," said Justin Meuse, a campaigner at the Wilderness Society. "It's imperative and it's possible."
#12

The world's biggest economies have continued to finance the expansion of fossil fuels in poor countries to the tune of billions of dollars, despite their commitments on the climate.
The G20 group of developed and developing economies, and the multilateral development banks they fund, put $142bn (£112bn) into fossil fuel developments overseas from 2020 to 2022, according to estimates compiled by the campaigning groups Oil Change International (OCI) and Friends of the Earth US.
Canada, Japan and South Korea were the biggest sources of such finance in the three years studied, and gas received more funding than either coal or oil.
The G7 group of biggest economies, to which Japan and Canada belong, pledged in 2022 to halt overseas funding of fossil fuels. But while funding for coal has rapidly diminished, finance for oil and gas projects has continued at a strong pace.
Some of the money is going to other developed economies, including Australia, but much of it is to the developing world. However, richer middle income countries still receive more finance than the poorest.
The most recent G7 pledge, in the study, is to phase out all overseas fossil fuel funding by the end of 2022. The OCI study concentrates on the period from the beginning of the fiscal year of 2020-21 for each country, to the end of the fiscal year of 2022-23.
However, the researchers also found that Japan had continued to make new fossil fuel investments overseas in the past few weeks, up to mid-March 2024, exploiting loopholes in its promise to end fossil fuel funding.
The World Bank provided about $1.2bn a year to fossil fuels over the three-year period, of which about two-thirds went to gas projects.
The US, Germany and Italy also provided billions in funding a year to overseas fossil fuel projects before the end of 2022-23, according to the report published on Tuesday. The UK supplied about $600m a year on average.
Canada supplied just under $11bn a year on average, in the 2020-22 period studied, while South Korea put forward $10bn and Japan about $7bn.
Over the same three-year period, the G20 economies put about $104bn into clean energy developments overseas, according to the report.
Claire O'Manique, a public finance analyst at OCI, said: "While rich countries continue to drag their feet and claim they can't afford to fund a globally just energy transition, countries like Canada, Korea, Japan and the US appear to have no shortage of public funds for climate-wrecking fossil fuels.
"We must continue to hold wealthy countries accountable for their role in funding the climate crisis, and demand they move first and fastest on a fossil fuel phase-out, to stop funding fossil fuels, and that they pay their fair share of a globally just transition, loss and damage and adaptation finance."
Makiko Arima, a senior finance campaigner at OCI, called on Japan particularly to stop supporting fossil fuels. Japan has lobbied behind the scenes to stop G7 countries adopting a stronger stance on fossil fuels, and in favour of some key projects.
Arima said: "Japan is derailing the transition to renewable energy across Asia and globally. Despite its G7 commitment to end fossil fuel financing, its public financial institutions like the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) continue to support new fossil fuel projects, including the Scarborough gasfield in Australia and gas power plants in Mexico.
"JBIC is currently investigating a claim that it failed to follow its social and environmental safeguards in developing the Philippines' first LNG [liquefied natural gas] terminal in Batangas. Japan needs to put people and planet over profit, and shift its finances from fossil fuels to renewables."
#13
The world's biggest consulting firm found that its clients were on a trajectory to bust global climate targets, details of internal forecasting in 2021 uncovered by the Centre for Climate Reporting (CCR) and the Guardian reveal.
McKinsey & Company has worked with some of the world's biggest emitters, including many of the largest fossil fuel producers. It has previously argued it is necessary to engage these clients to help them transition to cleaner forms of energy and hit the target of limiting global warming to less than 1.5C above preindustrial levels.
But the CCR and the Guardian have learned of an internal analysis of client emissions carried out by McKinsey in 2021 which showed that the companies the firm works with were set to exceed this target. Despite this, an internal email alleges that no senior members of staff were willing to "push the effort forward".
The revelations follow an investigation published in the Guardian yesterday, based on more than a dozen interviews with former insiders, internal documents and hundreds of pages of court records, which revealed new details about the firm's work with the fossil fuel industry.
Many of the world's biggest fossil fuel producers have been significant sources of revenue for McKinsey, such as the world's largest oil company, Saudi Aramco, and oil majors Shell and BP, according to an analysis of bankruptcy court records.
"It is not a secret that McKinsey is in deep with big polluters, but now we know just how wide that hole is and how deep they're digging," said Rachel Rose Jackson from the campaign group Corporate Accountability. "The more it continues to partner closely with and profit from the very actors condemning people and the planet, the more complicit it becomes."
A spokesperson for the firm told the CCR and the Guardian: "We have been open about our work with fossil fuel clients and hard-to-abate sectors, and see no contradiction with our commitment to the energy transition. In decarbonisation scenarios consistent with Paris agreement levels, fossil fuel use is projected to decline, but will continue to be a part of the energy mix to meet the world's energy needs."
In 2020, a small team of McKinsey consultants began calculating the total emissions the firm's clients were responsible for, multiple people with knowledge of the work told the CCR. This included those classified as scope 3, emissions released when fossil fuels are burned that are counted against the producers. The consultants also predicted what emissions from these clients would look like in 2030, according to a widely distributed internal email sent by a departing member of the team and seen by the CCR.
The McKinsey & Company stand at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, in 2023. Photograph: NurPhoto/Getty Images
The international treaty signed in 2016 known as the Paris agreement stated that in order to avoid the worst effects of the climate crisis, countries must aim to limit global warming to 1.5C above preindustrial levels. But even taking into account its clients' emissions reductions targets, the McKinsey team found its clients were set to far exceed this.
"We are serving a client portfolio that is likely on the 3 to 5 degrees warming trajectory depending on what you believe about the rest of the world's trajectory - this portfolio contains more than half of the world's worst polluters," a copy of the email seen by the CCR states. "Our clients have a commanding and rising share of global emissions, and knowing what we know today, have a big and widening gap to the Paris aligned pathway."
The email said that the results were "hardly surprising" given that the world at large is not on track to hit the Paris goal but argues the firm has some responsibility for client emissions. It also alleged that McKinsey's sustainability work was "being used to launder the Firm's reputation, and wash away the problems posed by our more inconvenient engagements expanding emissions elsewhere".
Since McKinsey completed the emissions analysis, the Paris target has become increasingly out of reach. Recently, some climate scientists have said it is now impossible to limit global warming to 1.5C.
McKinsey declined to comment on the findings of the internal emissions forecasting. A spokesperson said: "McKinsey has been helping our clients decarbonise, build climate resilience and address sustainability challenges for more than a decade. Three years ago, we committed to rapidly scale this work to help clients in all industries reach net zero by 2050, and to help the world reach the goals aligned with the Paris agreement."
In 2021, the firm's managing partner Bob Sternfels wrote: "Like it or not, there is no way to deliver emissions reductions without working with these industries to rapidly transition ... So, we think it is important to be in the arena, not on the outside looking in."
But since then, some of the firm's major fossil fuel clients have also reportedly been slowing their push into cleaner energy. At times between 2019 and 2023, the oil company Shell has contributed significantly to McKinsey's revenues in several countries, the CCR's analysis of the bankruptcy filings reveals. But Shell's investment in its renewables and energy solutions division reportedly dropped from $3.5bn in 2022 to $2.7bn last year. Recently, oil company BP, another significant client, reportedly ditched a target to cut oil and gas production by 2030 and now plans to scale back its energy transition strategy.
A spokesperson for Shell said: "Shell is committed to becoming a net zero emissions energy business by 2050, a target we believe supports the more ambitious goal of the Paris agreement." BP did not respond to a request for comment.
Despite the findings of the internal emissions analysis, the email says that there were no senior partners at the firm "willing to sponsor the work" or "push the effort forward".
The author of the email wrote that because of this he "joined a self-organized group of similarly motivated colleagues" who produced an open letter first reported by the New York Times in 2021.
The open letter alluded to the findings of the emissions analysis. "For several years, we have been telling the world to be bold and align to a 1.5C emissions pathway; it is long overdue we take our own advice," a copy of the letter obtained by the CCR stated. It called for ways of holding the firm to account for promises it had made around helping clients in all industries reach net zero. The signatories asked to open up to public scrutiny data on the emissions its clients were responsible for and setting targets to help them align with a pathway to reach the Paris goal.
It was signed by more than 1,100 people at the firm. But a number of former McKinsey consultants told the CCR that they felt the letter did little to move the needle internally on the issue. The firm still does not publicly disclose details on client emissions.
A statement on McKinsey's website in response to the New York Times report in 2021 stated: "After this letter was sent, our leaders engaged with our colleagues to address their questions and explain our firm's ongoing commitments on sustainability."
Both the open letter and the internal email attempted to hold the firm to account for its work helping some of the world's biggest emitters boost production of fossil fuels. As the CCR and the Guardian revealed yesterday, this has included working on a controversial Saudi government program designed to increase demand for fossil fuels in poorer countries.
The firm worked with the country's oil sustainability program, which developed plans to facilitate investment in roads, airports, and the cars and planes that make use of them in Africa and Asia. It's unclear specifically which plans McKinsey's consultants advised on. An official from the Saudi program told undercover reporters last year that "one of the main objectives" of the program was to offset a decline in oil demand due to efforts to tackle the climate crisis.
Over the last several years, McKinsey has also hired a raft of former petroleum engineers dedicated to helping often old, emissions-intensive oilfields become more productive and profitable.
Yet much of the firm's work is kept hidden from public view. "While hydrocarbon producers face mounting pressure to transition their businesses," the consultant wrote in the email in 2021, "we cannot ignore the role PR firms, consulting firms, law firms, private entities operating under cover of confidentiality with no transparency, play in helping heavy emitters prolong emissions."
#14
Renewable energy accounted for more than 30% of the world's electricity for the first time last year following a rapid rise in wind and solar power, according to new figures.
A report on the global power system has found that the world may be on the brink of driving down fossil fuel generation, even as overall demand for electricity continues to rise.
Clean electricity has already helped to slow the growth in fossil fuels by almost two-thirds in the past 10 years, according to the report by climate thinktank Ember. It found that renewables have grown from 19% of electricity in 2000 to more than 30% of global electricity last year.
"The renewables future has arrived," said Dave Jones, Ember's director of global insights. "Solar, in particular, is accelerating faster than anyone thought possible."
Solar was the main supplier of electricity growth, according to Ember, adding more than twice as much new electricity generation as coal in 2023.
It was the fastest-growing source of electricity for the 19th consecutive year, and also became the largest source of new electricity for the second year running, after surpassing wind power.
The first comprehensive review of global electricity data covers 80 countries, which represent 92% of the world's electricity demand, as well as historic data for 215 countries.
The surge in clean electricity is expected to power a 2% decrease in global fossil fuel generation in the year ahead, according to Ember.
"The decline of power sector emissions is now inevitable," said Jones. "2023 was likely the pivot point - peak emissions in the power sector - a major turning point in the history of energy. But the pace of emissions falls depends on how fast the renewables revolution continues."
Although fossil fuel use in the world's electricity system may begin to fall, it continues to play an outsized role in global energy - in transport fuels, heavy industry and heating.
A separate study by the Energy Institute found last year that fossil fuels including oil, gas and coal made up 82% of the world's primary energy.
World leaders are aiming to grow renewables to 60% of global electricity by 2030 under an agreement struck at the UN's Cop28 climate change conference in December.
This would require countries to triple their current renewable electricity capacity in the next six years, which would almost halve power sector emissions.
#15

Faced with worsening climate-driven disasters and an electricity grid increasingly supplied by intermittent renewables, the US is rapidly installing huge batteries that are already starting to help prevent power blackouts.
From barely anything just a few years ago, the US is now adding utility-scale batteries at a dizzying pace, having installed more than 20 gigawatts of battery capacity to the electric grid, with 5GW of this occurring just in the first seven months of this year, according to the federal Energy Information Administration (EIA).
This means that battery storage equivalent to the output of 20 nuclear reactors has been bolted on to America's electric grids in barely four years, with the EIA predicting this capacity could double again to 40GW by 2025 if further planned expansions occur.
California and Texas, which both saw all-time highs in battery-discharged grid power this month, are leading the way in this growth, with hulking batteries helping manage the large amount of clean yet intermittent solar and wind energy these states have added in recent years.

The explosion in battery deployment even helped keep the lights on in California this summer, when in previous years the state has seen electricity rationing or blackouts during intense heatwaves that see air conditioning use soar and power lines topple due to wildfires. "We can leverage that stored energy and dispatch it when we need it," Patti Poppe, chief executive of PG&E, California's largest utility, said last month.
"It's been extraordinary growth," said John Moura, director of reliability assessment and performance analysis at the North American Electric Reliability Corporation.
"It's still technology that we are getting used to working with because the system wasn't designed for it, but from a reliability perspective it presents a golden opportunity. This changes the whole paradigm of producing electricity, delivering it and consuming it. Storage gives us a bit of a time machine to deliver it when we need it."
While scientists are clear that the US, and the rest of the world, must radically slash planet-heating emissions from electricity generation and other sources, the rapid growth of clean energy such as solar and wind provides more peaks and troughs of production that need to be actively managed to retain a reliable grid.
"Batteries can smooth out some of that variability from those times when the wind isn't blowing or the sun isn't shining. The Germans have a word for this sort of drought: Dunkelflaute," said Moura. "So if you have a four-hour storage battery, that can get you through a Dunkelflaute."
Energy storage containers with lithium ion batteries at the University of California, San Diego, on 16 September 2022 in La Jolla, California. Photograph: Sandy Huffaker/AFP/Getty Images
Of course, wind and sun droughts can last longer than the longest-duration batteries currently available, meaning they are not a panacea. A fully clean grid will also require a vast upgrade in US transmission lines - for example, to shift renewable energy swiftly across the country to where it is needed. The permitting reform to allow this is a bitterly contested issue, with many environmental groups opposed to looser regulations they say will only empower fossil fuel concerns.
But batteries should be able to play an increasingly strong supporting role to the energy transition, with the International Energy Agency last week calling them "a key source of dispatchable capacity globally". The IEA forecasts that batteries will provide about 40% of all short-term electricity flexibility needs worldwide by 2050.
"There are a lot of changes happening but monstrous action is still needed if we are going to make this energy transition," said Moura.
#16

Bill Gates has claimed that artificial intelligence will be more of a help than a hindrance in achieving climate goals, despite growing concern that an increase in new datacentres could drain green energy supplies.
The philanthropist and Microsoft co-founder told journalists that AI would enable countries to use less energy, even as they require more datacentres, by making technology and electricity grids more efficient.
Gates downplayed fears over AI's climate impact amid mounting concerns that the tech breakthrough could lead to a rise in energy demand and require more fossil fuels as a result.
"Let's not go overboard on this," Gates said. "Datacentres are, in the most extreme case, a 6% addition [in energy demand] but probably only 2% to 2.5%. The question is, will AI accelerate a more than 6% reduction? And the answer is: certainly."
A query run through the AI chatbot tool ChatGPT needs nearly 10 times as much electricity to process as a Google search, according to estimates by Goldman Sachs, which could mean that carbon emissions from datacentres more than double in the decade between 2022 and 2030.
Some expert estimates have claimed that an increase in the number of AI datacentres could cause electricity demand to rise by up to 10% in developed countries, after years of declining energy due to greater efficiency.
Gates told journalists at a London conference hosted by his venture fund Breakthrough Energy that the extra demand created by AI datacentres was more likely to be matched by new investments in green electricity because tech companies were "seriously willing" to pay extra to use clean electricity sources in order "to say that they're using green energy".
"The tech companies are the [ones] willing to pay a premium, and to help bootstrap green energy capacity," he added.
Breakthrough Energy has invested in more than 100 companies involved in the energy transition. Gates is also a big investor in AI via the Gates Foundation Trust, which invests about a third of its $77bn (£61bn) wealth in Microsoft. In turn, Microsoft is the largest external investor in ChatGPT creator OpenAI, and has built a suite of AI tools into its Windows operating system under the brand Copilot.
But his belief that AI could ultimately cut carbon is not unusual. In February, a peer-reviewed paper in Nature Scientific Reports argued that generative AI produced between 130 and 2,900 times less CO2 to do simple writing and illustration tasks than if a human had carried them out instead.
AI technology has more directly affected emissions, as well. In 2016, just a few years after it bought British AI lab DeepMind, Google announced that it had been able to use the lab's nascent deep learning technology to cut its cooling bill by 40% across its data centres. At a stroke, Google said, its data centres needed to use 15% less electricity spread across all the non-IT tasks as a result.
But the power use of a data centre is only part of the concern about the carbon impact of AI. In Microsoft's own emissions reporting, the company says its "scope three", or indirect, emissions have been trending in the wrong direction, in part because of the impact of building new datacentres around the world - a task that cannot yet be done using renewable electricity.
The rise of "on-device" AI, demonstrated by Microsoft through its new Copilot+ PCs and Apple with its "Apple Intelligence" boost to Siri, also muddies the water: big companies may be able to commit to buying all their electricity from renewable sources, but they cannot make the same promise for their customers, whose new devices are significantly more power-hungry than they would be otherwise.
Gates warned that despite advances in AI and green electricity tech, the world was likely to miss its 2050 climate targets by up to 15 years because the amount of green electricity needed to phase out fossil fuels was not coming forward quickly enough.
He said that a delay in the switch to green energy could hinder the decarbonisation of polluting sectors, including heavy industry, making a 2050 target to reach net zero emissions more difficult to achieve.
"I worry, in general, that the amount of green electricity that we need for the transition is not going to show up nearly as fast as we need," Gates said.
"If you try to map out and say: 'Let's get to zero by 2050,' you're like: 'Another 10 or 15 years might be more realistic.' It's very hard to see. We're not going to get to zero by 2050, I don't think," he added.
Gates's warning came a week after a global report found that, despite a record rise in renewable energy in 2023, consumption of fossil fuels also climbed to a new record high as a result of steadily rising demand.
#17

The energy company Shell has watered down a key green target as it prepares to defy climate experts by growing its liquified natural gas business and holding its oil production steady until 2030.
The company signalled that it may slow the pace of its emissions reductions for this decade by setting a new plan to reduce the carbon emissions intensity of the energy it sells by 15-20% by the end of the decade, compared with its previous target of 20%.
The weakened target, which was set out in its latest energy transition strategy, will enable Shell to slow the pace of its emissions reductions in a decade that climatologists have warned is crucial in averting a climate catastrophe.
Agathe Masson of the campaign group Reclaim Finance said the "retrograde step" showed once again that Shell had "no interest in acting for the climate".
Climate experts have called on all fossil fuel companies to reduce the emissions from the energy they sell, known as "scope 3 emissions", by cutting their production of oil and gas. Shell's targets refer to the carbon intensity of their products, rather than the absolute emissions. This means it could produce more gas at a lower emissions intensity but still raise its total emissions overall as it ramps up production.
The strategy update includes a new target to reduce the scope 3 emissions from its oil business by between 15-20% by 2030, compared with 2021 levels. It has not set a scope 3 emissions target for its gas business, which is expected to grow by 50% by 2040.
The weaker climate targets were set out alongside Shell's annual report, which shows its chief executive, Wael Sawan, will take home a pay packet worth almost $10m (£7.94m). His predecessor Ben van Beurden was paid £9.7m in 2022.
Jonathan Noronha-Gant, a senior fossil fuels campaigner at the NGO Global Witness, said: "Shell's CEO £8m pay packet is a bitter pill to swallow for the millions of workers living with the high costs of energy. Our reliance on Shell's dirty oil and gas make them rich whilst the rest of us get poorer."
Last month, Shell revealed an annual profit of more than $28bn for 2023, one of its most profitable years on record, as green activists staged a protest outside the company's London headquarters.
Sawan angered green groups last June, when the company appeared to reverse a plan to reduce Shell's oil and gas production by 1-2% a year, in pursuit of higher profits.
Shell hpromised in 2021 it would reduce its oil output every year for the rest of the decade, from a 2019 peak of 1.9m barrels a day. It claimed it had in fact achieved this target in 2021 after the $9.5bn sale of its stake in a large project in the Permian basin in the US. The sale has helped to reduce its oil production to 1.5m barrels a day. Shell said that was the equivalent of 200,000 barrels of oil and gas production last year.
The company plans to start enough fossil fuel projects to add 500,000 barrels a day to its oil and gas production by 2025.
The decision to continue investing in fossil fuels goes against advice from climate experts who have said there can be no new oil or gas developments if the world hopes to avoid a climate crisis.
The new oil and gas projects would enable Shell to "continue providing the energy security that the world needs while delivering cashflow longevity into the future", according to Sawan.
#18
The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), passed exactly two years ago, was pitched as a policy that puts the "middle class first". But the spending bill's residential tax credits have so far disproportionately benefited wealthy families, new data indicates.
That's a major challenge for the efforts to decarbonize the US economy in time to avert the worst consequences of the climate crisis.
"If going green is just a niche lifestyle choice for the upper middle class, it won't move the needle on emissions at a societal level," said Matt Huber, a geography and environment professor at Syracuse University and the author of the 2022 book Climate Change is Class War.
A treasury department report published this month shines a light on the use of two IRA renewable energy tax credits: one that helped Americans boost the energy efficiency of their homes by installing heat pumps, electric water heaters, efficient windows and doors, or other upgrades; and another that helped households install small-scale renewable energy production - most commonly rooftop solar panels.
In 2023, about 3.4m households, representing 2.5% of all tax filers, took advantage of at least one of these two subsidies, both of which were expansions of pre-existing incentive programs. That represents a 30% rise in the use of efficiency and clean energy tax credits over 2021 levels.
Nearly half of those who claimed at least one of these credits last year had incomes lower than $100,000. Yet roughly 75% of tax filers had incomes lower than $100,000 in 2023, and a closer look at the use of the credits by households within that bracket shows that wealthier Americans more frequently adopted both tax credits.
Of all filers making less than $100,000, just 0.7% claimed the clean energy tax credit, and just 0.9% claimed the efficiency incentive. In the over-$100,000 bracket, those percentages rose to 1.6% and a stunningly high 4.0%.
This dynamic, said Huber, was predictable. Tax credit programs can be difficult to navigate, especially for families who can't afford to hire tax accountants, he said.
Further, though tax credits can make upgrades more affordable, they may not bring them into reach for Americans with lower incomes, especially because the programs come with spending caps for each household.
"Most working-class Americans, living paycheck to paycheck, do not have the savings or credit to buy a new heating/cooling system ... even with a complicated incentive to do so," he said.
The tax incentives also favor those with higher tax burdens. If an upgrade is eligible for up to $2,000 in credits, for instance, filers must owe that amount or more in taxes to receive the full incentive amount.
This marked a substantial change from earlier proposals, which would have made the incentives available even for those with no tax burden. Lew Daly, a senior fellow with the climate justice group Just Solutions, said this was "a tragic political error" that should be changed by Congress.
"Without refundability, most of our country's millions of moderate- and low-income homeowners are intentionally being excluded from the clean energy transition and its benefits in their everyday life, even as we are giving a massive fortune of tax dollars to big corporations and affluent households through the energy credits program as codified," he said.
The two credits also require Americans to pay the up-front cost of home upgrades and wait until tax season to recoup costs - an option some households cannot afford.
It's a major problem for lower-income Americans who are grappling with rising utility bills and a "threadbare social safety net", said Daly.
"The exclusionary design of the energy credits program is just piling on to create a future of worsening inequity," he said.
Despite these issues, when compared with similar tax incentives that pre-dated the IRA, the distribution of these credits has been more even, said James Sallee, energy economist at the University of California, Berkeley. One study showed 60% of benefits went to the top 20% of households from 2006 to 2020.
"But, the benefits are still regressive," Sallee said. "In every income category, the more money you make, the more money on average people are claiming per tax return."
The IRA does include provisions aimed at promoting equal distribution. The renewable energy tax credit, for instance, can be used to enroll in community solar - a helpful arrangement for renters and apartment dwellers who tend to have lower incomes than house-owners.
The bill also includes point-of-sale rebates for efficient appliances and upgrades, though their rollout has been slow because they are being distributed locally. Only two states have yet to offer rebates, though others could launch their programs within months.
Other changes could help change the distribution of tax credits, said Sallee. One of them: placing income caps on eligibility.
But ultimately, said Huber, to create green benefits that are easier for all Americans to access, they should be universal rather than means-tested.
"Instead of putting out incentives for individual households, why not work with utilities on a program that would aim to install heat pumps in every household for free," he asked.
"That might sound outlandish, but if we see solving climate change [as] critical to the public good, there's no reason why decarbonization shouldn't be seen as a core public service like healthcare or education."
#19
The UK's net zero economy grew by 9% in 2023, a report has revealed, in stark contrast to the 0.1% growth seen in the economy overall. Nevertheless, the report pointed out that strong future growth from green businesses was being put at risk by government policy reversals, lack of investment and competition from the EU and US.
Thousands of new green companies were founded in 2023 and overall the sector was responsible for the production of £74bn in goods and services and 765,000 jobs, according to the report by the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit (ECIU) and the Confederation of British Industry (CBI).
Hotspots of net zero businesses and the well-paid jobs they provide occur across the country, rather than being concentrated in London and the south-east, the report found. It also highlighted strong net zero activity in some of the most deprived areas and in marginal constituencies that will be focal battlegrounds in the coming general election.
Achieving net zero emissions by 2050 is vital to limiting the damage from the climate crisis. Doing so would not only bring an economic boost but also cut energy costs for households and businesses and ensure energy security by ending the UK's reliance on volatile fossil fuel markets, the report authors said.
Peter Chalkley, the director of ECIU, said: "Against the backdrop of economic stagnation, the net zero economy is bucking the trend, but it's clear that the policy U-turns of the past year have damaged investor confidence at a time when the US and EU are investing billions to compete for clean industries. The question now is: will political parties provide the leadership, stability and investment needed to generate further growth - or shy away from the global race for net zero?"
Louise Hellem, chief economist at the CBI, said: "The transition to net zero presents unprecedented opportunities for the UK to become a more resilient and productive economy while also tackling climate change. [Businesses] really don't want to see net zero issues politicised."
Rishi Sunak, the Conservative prime minister, has weakened net zero policies including the rollout of electric vehicles and heat pumps and backed new oil and gas drilling, against the advice of scientists. The UK has also recently fallen down an index of attractiveness for renewable energy investment. Keir Starmer, the Labour leader, recently halved a pledge to invest £28bn a year in the green economy.
Adriana Curca, manager of CBI Economics, said: "We quite often tend to think about the costs involved in the net zero transition, but there are a lot of economic opportunities, having a real potential to drive sustainable long-term growth."
The new report analysed the green economy, including renewable energy, building energy efficiency, electric vehicles, carbon capture technology and green finance. It found net zero jobs were on average £10,000 better paid than the UK average of £35,400, and 50% more productive, generating £114,300 in economic activity overall. The number of net zero businesses rose by 4,000 to 23,745 in 2023.
The report found hotspots of net zero activity in some of the most deprived parts of the country, including Hartlepool, Nottingham, Redcar and Cleveland, all of which are in the 10% most deprived local authorities. It also found that half of the top 50 net zero hotspots in England and Wales were in the top 50 most marginal Conservative seats to be contested at the general election, including High Peak, Cheadle, Derby North, and Lancaster and Wyre.
Adriana Curca: "These [net zero] jobs go a long way towards improving living standards in those areas."
Thomas Farquhar at cleantech business Heatio said: "The UK net zero economy offers huge opportunities for new, innovative businesses to grow. Frustratingly, we are lagging behind the rest of Europe."
Farquhar said only 1% of UK homes had transitioned to low carbon dioxide heating, compared with 66% in Norway; and only 5% of suitable UK homes had installed solar panels, compared with 16% in the Netherlands.
The UK's National Infrastructure Commission said on Friday that the "government needs to move faster to ensure that the necessary [energy] infrastructure can be delivered over the next decade". The International Monetary Fund said in December that the "economic benefits of accelerating the transition to a low carbon economy vastly outweigh its cost".
A London School of Economics report published in January concluded that "too much current investment continues to be in the unsustainable economy", such as oil and gas and new homes and offices that are not energy-efficient.
It said: "The UK needs to increase annual public investment by around 1% of GDP - £26bn at current prices - to make up for decades of underinvestment. There will be upfront investment costs, but targeted and temporary borrowing for good public net investment is fiscally responsible."
A Department for Energy Security and Net Zero spokesperson said: "We welcome these findings, which are testament to our world-leading plans to transform the energy industry towards more clean and renewable energy. We have a clear strategy to boost UK industry and reach net zero - with over 80,000 green jobs being supported or in the pipeline since 2020, and over £200bn in public and private low carbon investment since 2010."
#20
The rate of transition from "dirty" to green jobs is rapidly rising but older and blue-collar workers are being left behind, new research has found.
Overall the transition rate from dirty to clean industries increased tenfold between 2005 and 2021 with a significant uptick in EV-related roles - even before the $369bn Inflation Reduction Act boost for renewables and electric cars.
Yet fewer than 1% of all workers who leave a dirty job appear to get another in a clean or green industry, raising concerns about who will benefit from the green transition, according to a study published in the National Bureau of Economic Research.
Researchers from the University of Pennsylvania analysed data from 130m online work profiles - representing approximately 300m job-to-job transitions - to examine how workers may be affected by the shift from fossil fuels towards less dirty or carbon-intensive energy sources.
Dirty industries include coal, oil and gas extraction or production, as well as energy-intensive manufacturing jobs like cement, mining, chemical and paper and pulp.
Older workers (in their 40s, 50s and 60s) and those without a college education appear least likely to move into green jobs, which are classified as roles clearly associated with renewable energy like solar, wind or the production of electric vehicles.
So far, the majority of green jobs have gone to white-collar workers like sales managers, software developers and marketing managers. Just over a quarter (27%) appear to have gone to first-time job seekers, and more than 20,000 jobs went to overseas workers.
Overall, about one in five workers moved from one dirty job to another. But in some cities, the share of dirty-to-dirty transitions is as high as 90%, suggesting there are limited attractive options outside carbon-intensive industries.
In some states such as Louisiana, Delaware and Texas over half of all transitions out of heavy industry or dirty jobs are into other dirty jobs, while workers in California, Oregon and Arizona workers are most likely to move into EV or clean energy industries. This may be down to a heavier concentration of fossil-fuel intensive jobs and barriers in accessing educational opportunities including reskilling.
"Our data suggest that, if past trends continue, the clean energy transition may have important distributional consequences that could exacerbate underlying trends in labor market inequality," the authors said.
The IRA, Biden's landmark climate legislation passed a year ago, targets both supply and demand for EVs and renewable technologies, and is central to the administration's climate and economic policies.
No Republican voted for the IRA but most of the investment that has been triggered by the bill has been funneled into projects in GOP-held congressional districts, with battery and electric vehicle plants popping up in states such as Georgia, Tennessee and Texas.
The IRA has been criticised for failing to require worker protections amid fears that the landmark funding boost will entrench existing inequalities - unless steps are taken to ensure the transition to a green economy is geographically, racially and socially just.
"It's tough to forecast the IRA's effects ... but it will likely have a significant positive effect on the growth of green jobs overall," said lead author Jisung Park, an environmental and labor economist at Penn's School of Social Policy & Practice.
"The details of how the IRA will be implemented and targeted will likely continue to be in flux, but there certainly appears to be significant interest among policymakers in ensuring that we apply the lessons from previous employment shocks - including the so-called 'China shock' or from earlier environmental policies like the Clean Air Act - which had highly unequal impacts on workers across geography, educational background, and income," Park added.
On Monday, as part of an IRA anniversary tour by the Biden administration, the treasury secretary, Janet Yellen, visits a union facility in Las Vegas, Nevada - a key battleground state for 2024 - to meet workers learning skills to work on clean energy projects. She said: "Accelerating these transitions can mean greater demand for US clean energy technologies produced by American workers. It can also bolster global clean energy supply chains."
#21
'We've all accepted that the North Sea is declining," says Roy, 70, a taxi driver working in Aberdeen for the past 20 years. "Over the years there have been a few huge market crashes but we always recover. This time, it's a real decline."
Drive along the granite city's Union Street and there are dozens of shuttered shops, some empty for almost a decade following one of the longest routs in the history of the oil market, which brought oil prices to lows of less than $30 (£23) a barrel in 2016, less than half its value today.
The capital of the UK's oil and gas industry has weathered the volatility of the global oil markets since the North Sea heyday in the 1970s; its fortunes tied to the rise and fall of the price of Brent crude. But it is now less than two weeks away from a reckoning with the chancellor, Rachel Reeves, who many expect to set out tax changes in the budget that could hasten the end of the North Sea industry and threaten the 200,000 jobs it supports.
"They're killing us," says Darren, 50, an oil rig worker for the past 22 years. He declines to give his full name for fear of losing his job with a major oil company. "This government is going to do to the North Sea what Margaret Thatcher did to the mines. We all know it: this is the end for the UK oil industry. We just don't know when."
The Labour party stormed to power in July with bold plans to end Britain's fossil fuel legacy and emerge as a "clean energy superpower". Within days of forming a government, the party confirmed the UK would bring an end to new licences for oil and gas projects.
The decision has cemented Britain's climate leadership in a crucial decade for tackling rising carbon emissions - but this is cold comfort for workers such as Darren, a father of two, who fear for the future of their industry.
"Imagine losing your job, losing the roof over your kids' heads, and all to save carbon emissions that are a drop in the ocean compared to China's? The best I can hope for is to hang on and perhaps in four years this government will be voted out," he says.
'A multibillion-pound paradox'
Alongside plans to ban new oil and gas licences, Labour came to power with an election pledge to toughen the windfall tax regime put in place after a surge in market prices following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It promised to raise the energy profits levy by increasing the headline tax rate companies pay on their oil and gas profits by three percentage points, to 78%.
Labour plans to use the higher taxes taken from the North Sea to help fund its ambition to turn the UK into a green energy "superpower" in line with its goal of making the UK's electricity system net zero by 2030.
The party also promised to close the "loophole" left by the previous government that enabled oil and gas firms to reduce their taxes through investment allowances. These allowances, which are commonplace in tax legislation, allow companies to deduct the value of their investments from their profits - enabling companies to pay less tax and offering incentive for further investment.
The combined impact of higher headline taxes and lower tax relief risks devastating the sector's predicted investment over the second half of this decade, according to the industry's trade association, Offshore Energies UK (OEUK). It has warned that the changes could wipe out £12bn in tax receipts and jeopardise 35,000 industry jobs.
Stifel, an investment bank, believes that while the move would increase Treasury revenues in the short term, the wider economic impact would mean a sharp decline in takings from 2029 and the loss of 100,000 jobs in total.
"There is a multibillion-pound paradox here," the bank said in a research note this year. "Any further increases to the windfall tax take, especially through the removal of investment allowances, would result in substantially lower investment and, therefore, lower tax income for the UK, fewer jobs, loss of skills for the green transition, higher emissions, and the export of jobs, skills and the UK's energy security to other energy-producing countries."
The Aberdeen Chamber of Commerce has warned that the spectre of Labour's budget is being felt far beyond the energy sector. Its most recent quarterly economic survey of more than 5,000 companies showed that concerns over taxation had rocketed up the risk register; more than 60% of companies in the north-east of Scotland have cited the government's tax policies as a barrier to growth, up from 48% just three months ago.
"The Treasury understands the potential impact," says Russell Borthwick, the chamber's chief executive. "But I do wonder if they've painted themselves into a difficult corner with these policies."
"The fact is, there are no windfall profits being made in the North Sea today. There was a short period of time when Russia invaded Ukraine and there were oil prices above $100 a barrel. But Celtic Football Club made bigger profits than our largest North Sea oil producers last year. It looks like they're now being singled out for political reasons, rather than fiscal reasons," he says.
The wider regional economy is still "inextricably linked to the oil and gas economy", which means the knock-on effect "will be felt from professional services to the retail industry to cab drivers. It will be more marked here than anywhere else."
Gabby Robertson, 24, has worked in high-street fashion stores for four years and has noticed the decline of Aberdeen's retail sector, which was once flush with oil and gas money.
"We used to have people come in and spend £400 to £500, but we see that a lot less now. People are coming in to buy single items or they tell us they'll have to come back at payday and ask about paying on Klarna (the buy now, pay later platform). It's still better here than on Union Street. Shops there have closed and there's nothing to replace them. It's getting harder and harder for small businesses to survive," she says.
Economic catastrophe is not inevitable. Most of the gloomier projections cited by the industry assume that all investment allowances will be scrapped, although this has not been explicitly proposed by the government. The industry is hoping that some allowances remain intact to help prolong investment in the declining industry and allow its workers the chance to transition to Britain's low-carbon future.
'Where is the transition?'
At a busy heliport near Aberdeen airport, dozens of rig workers wait to board the helicopters that will take them up to 100 miles off the Scottish coast to the giant oil and gas platforms that extract the UK's fossil fuels.
Most will work 12- to 13-hour days offshore for three weeks, before returning to their homes in Scotland and the north of England for a three-week break. On this grey October day, bad weather has kept many helicopters on the ground, and talk of the government's upcoming budget has darkened the mood.
One oil rig worker, aged 53, who asked not to be named, has travelled to Aberdeen from his home in Lincolnshire each month for the past 30 years to work in the North Sea. After only a five-day break, he has returned for a one-week stint as part of his plan "to fit in more work while it's around".
"If Rachel Reeves does increase taxes for the North Sea then that's another hit to the pockets of the oil companies that operate here. Harbour Energy, one of the biggest players, let 350 people go as part of a restructuring last year. I had hoped to keep working until I'm 60 but if I can get another five years I should be OK," he says.
"It's definitely the beginning of the end," says Bob, 52. "Platforms that could have kept producing for years longer will shut. The one I work on will close in two years. It's been 12 years that I've been working on the rigs after the refinery I worked at was left to close. I'll be OK because I've had a long career but I think about the guys with young families who could lose their jobs and it just doesn't seem right.
"It seems crazy to me that the North Sea faces windfall taxes but the likes of Amazon can get away with paying very little. Shouldn't it be the same for all companies across the country? Isn't that fair?"
Paul, a rig worker from Dundee, is one of many who fear that Britain's plans to transition to a green economy will leave behind those who helped to build the fossil fuel economy of the past. "What I would ask the government is this: what's the proposed solution to the problem that all this is going to create? They talk about a green transition but where's the transition for us? All I hear is 'woke' jargon."
The government's plan to safeguard a "just transition" for Britain's fossil fuel workers took a step forward last week with plans to launch a "skills passport" to help oil and gas workers to move into jobs in renewables such as offshore wind. From early next year, the passport, which will be overseen by industry bodies RenewableUK and OEUK, with the support of the UK and Scottish governments, aims to align standards, recognise transferable skills and qualifications such as oil and gas safety standards, and map out career pathways for suitable roles.
About 90% of oil and gas workers have transferable skills for offshore renewable jobs, according to OEUK - but not everyone is eager to make the switch. Barry, an oil worker in his late 30s, says he has "absolutely no interest" in retraining to work in Britain's burgeoning offshore wind sector. For a start, the work is seasonal - with most maintenance taking place in the summer months. The pay is also not quite as good, he says.
"And it's just not for me, I don't like heights," he shrugs. "If I had plans to stay in the North Sea I'd be worried. But I think I'm going to go out to work in Qatar. I'm not the one you need to worry about; I can leave the North Sea and work somewhere else. These big oil companies can leave the North Sea and work somewhere else. But the services firms - the supply chains serving the North Sea - which can't leave are the ones who are going to feel the pain."
The sun rises behind a redundant oil platform moored in the Firth of Forth near Kirkcaldy, Fife. Photograph: Jane Barlow/PA
A green Aberdeen?
Like many oil workers, larger supply chain and oilfield service firms have already begun to eye the new oil and gas frontiers in the Middle East, Africa and South America as the UK's reserves dwindle.
The loss of skills and resources that could be put to use helping to meet the UK's green energy ambitions is a major concern for industry observers. At the same time, smaller firms without an international reach risk going bust if the gap between the end of Britain's fossil fuel era and the full economic benefits of its green future becomes too wide.
"I don't think I've ever seen an issue unite the trade unions, businesses, public sector and academics quite like this one," Borthwick says. "We're in danger of losing our industrial supply chains to overseas oil and gas projects before there's a chance for them to benefit from the opportunities of the green economy."
The answer, according to Borthwick, is to allow more breathing room for the oil companies to keep investing in their existing projects while the industry winds down, while speeding up the green agenda to provide a future for the region's small businesses.
The government's public energy company, GB Energy, which will be headquartered in Aberdeen, could use its "convening power" to build a home for green industries in the city, he says. "We want that ecosystem. We want green companies to believe that Aberdeen is the place that they need to be."
Reimagining Aberdeen as a green hub could prove to be the next chapter for a city uniquely poised at the centre of Britain's energy transition. It is a reinvention the city is ready for, says Borthwick.
"You know, Aberdeen used to be a very serious place; but we're changing. We've started to break out of the greyness of our granite past. It's like we're waking up. We're relearning who we are," he says.
#22
Nuclear power generation is likely to break records in 2025 as more countries invest in reactors to fuel the shift to a low-carbon global economy, while renewable energy is likely to overtake coal as a power source early next year, data has shown.
China, India, Korea and Europe are likely to have new reactors come on stream, while several in Japan are also forecast to return to generation, and French output should increase, according to a report on the state of global electricity markets published by the International Energy Agency (IEA) on Wednesday.
Electricity demand is also expected to increase around the world, fuelled largely by the move to a low-carbon economy. Electric vehicles and heat pumps, as well as many low-carbon industrial processes, require electricity rather than oil and gas.
Continuing rapid growth in renewable energy supply means these additional demands are likely to be covered in full by generation from wind, solar and other clean energy sources. Renewables will make up roughly a third of total electricity generation globally by early next year.
Dave Jones, the insights director at energy thinktank Ember, said the findings marked a potential turning point. "It's the beginning of the end of the fossil fuel era," he said. "Finally, the world seems like it is past peak fossil power, a crucial milestone in the energy transition. [This report] shows that 2023 will mark the end of fossil power growth. As of this year we are likely to be in a new era of declining fossil power."
But he added: "Peaking is not enough - we need deep and rapid CO2 cuts to keep within our vanishingly small carbon budget. We are doing the right things, we just need to do them even faster."
Fatih Birol, the IEA's executive director, hailed the developments as a positive sign for the fight against climate breakdown, though he said far more effort was needed.
"The power sector produces more carbon dioxide emissions than any other in the world economy, so it's encouraging to see that the rapid growth of renewables and a steady expansion of nuclear power are on course to match all the increase in global electricity demand over the next three years," he said.
"This is largely thanks to the huge momentum behind renewables, with ever cheaper solar leading the way, and support from the important comeback of nuclear power. While more progress is needed, and fast, these are very promising trends."
The IEA's annual analysis of market developments and policies, Electricity 2024, published on Wednesday, showed that global electricity demand increased by 2.2% in 2023, and was likely to reach about 3.4% from 2024 to 2026. Most of the increase was expected to come from rapidly emerging economies:chiefly China, India and south-east Asia.
However, the IEA also warned that the growth of power capacity was still uneven around the world. For instance, while electricity supply has increased overall in Africa, on a per capita basis power use across the continent has remained stagnant for more than three decades.
This is a brake on economic and social development, as people in poverty turn to polluting sources of energy such as biomass and paraffin. A lack of readily available electricity also holds back children from education and imperils health whenever hospitals experience blackouts.
Birol said: "The international community needs to work with African governments to enable the urgent progress [in electricity access] that is needed."
Africa has some of the world's greatest potential for solar and wind generation, and many of the vital minerals needed for renewable generation components, but would-be generators face large obstacles in the form of a high cost of capital for renewable energy projects. Many governments are urging institutions such as the World Bank to adjust their practices to make such development easier.
#23
The EU must cut greenhouse gas pollution almost three times more quickly than it has over the past decade to meet its climate targets, a European Commission report has said.
In an attempt to stop weather growing more extreme, the EU has promised to pump 55% less planet-heating gas into the air in 2030 than it did in 1990. But over the past three decades it has cut emissions by just 32%, leaving behind "significant gaps" for the next seven years, the commission found in its latest State of the Energy Union report.
Current policies will cut emissions in 2030 by just 43%, according to new estimates from the European Environment Agency project. The figure rises to 48% if they include policies that have been planned but not yet put in place, but still leave a deficit in climate action of seven percentage points.


"To fully achieve these targets, the pace of emissions reductions needs to step up," said Wopke Hoekstra, the EU's new climate commissioner.
The commission report praised efforts to quickly ditch gas from Russia in the wake of its war in Ukraine, which rapidly pushed up energy prices. The EU slashed imports of Russian gas from 155bn cubic metres in 2021 to 80bn cubic metres in 2022 and to an estimated 40-45bn cubic metres in 2023.
The EU also oversaw a boom in clean technologies such as wind turbines and solar panels, the report found, but the commission cautioned that renewable energy needed to grow much faster than it had over the past decade. On average, the share of renewables in European energy has grown 0.67 percentage points each year to hit 21.8% in 2021. Reaching the EU target of 42.5% by the end of the decade "will require a much faster growth in the coming years", the report found.
Emissions are falling steadily but three things stand out, said Hoekstra. "One, significant emissions cuts are needed in buildings and transport. Progress in these sectors has been sluggish at best. Two, the natural carbon sink needs to grow. In certain places the carbon sink has become a source of emissions, and that is worrying. And three, we need much more substantial progress in cutting emissions in agriculture."
Hoekstra, a former employee of oil firm Shell and consultancy McKinsey, also said fossil fuel subsidies were "unhelpful" for the clean energy transition and reminded national governments of their promises to get rid of them.
Most EU member states responded to the energy crisis by making it easier for people and industries to buy and burn fossil fuels. Subsidies surged to €123bn in 2022, half of which do not have an end date this decade, the report found.
At the Cop28 climate summit next month the EU has said it will push for a global phaseout of unabated fossil fuels - ie those where the planet-heating gases emitted are not captured - and certain subsidies.
Hoekstra said: "In the Cop28 mandate, all member states - I'll say again, all member states - agreed fossil fuel subsidies that do not address either energy poverty or the just transition must be phased out as soon as possible."
Several European governments have dragged their feet on climate action in recent months despite prodding from the EU. Only a handful of member states met the commission's June deadline for submitting their draft climate and energy plans and action plans are still missing from three of the five biggest polluters: Germany, France and Poland.
According to a new report from the European branch of campaign group Climate Action Network (CAN), the policies in the drafts that were submitted are not enough to keep the planet from heating by 1.5C above preindustrial levels. They are also too weak to comply with minimum EU climate and energy requirements for 2030.
Chiara Martinelli, the director of CAN Europe, called on governments in the EU to "match the magnitude of the challenge" in their action plans. "This report starkly highlights the glaring contrast between the urgent demand for accelerated climate action and the sluggish on-ground progress."
#24
Joe Biden marked Monday's Earth Day by announcing a $7bn investment in solar energy projects nationwide, focusing on disadvantaged communities, and unveiling a week-long series of what the White House say will be "historic climate actions".
The president was speaking at Prince William Forest Park, in Triangle, Virginia, touting his environmental record and unveiling measures to tackle the climate crisis and increase access to, and lower costs of, clean energy.
The centerpiece was the announcement of $7bn in grants through the Environmental Protection Agency's "solar for all" program, funded by last year's $369bn Inflation Reduction Act, and which Biden said will benefit hundreds of thousands of mostly low-income families who currently spend up to 30% of their income on energy.
"These awards across the country [are to] states, territories, tribal governments, municipalities and non-profits to develop programs to enable low income and disadvantaged communities to benefit from residential solar power. And it's a big deal," he said.
"Solar for all program means 900,000 households will have solar on the rooftops for the first time and soon, millions of families will save over $400 a year on utility bills."
The EPA has calculated that the investment, will be distributed through grants to 60 applicant organizations nationwide, will generate $8bn in household electricity bill savings over the life of the program.
Projects funded by the solar for all program will create 200,000 jobs, Biden said, and advance his Justice40 initiative, in which at least 40% of the benefits of investments in federal climate clean energy, and affordable and sustainable housing projects, are directed to communities "marginalized by underinvestment and overburdened by pollution".
Biden also announced a new website to encourage citizens to join the American Climate Corps, a volunteer government organization modeled on former president Franklin Delano Roosevelt's much-vaunted Civilian Conservation Corps of the 1930s.
The site, climatecorps.gov, aims to initially fill about 2,000 positions across 36 states, Washington DC and Puerto Rico, hosted by organizations working on clean energy, conservation and climate resilience projects. Ultimately the corps will employ more than 20,000 young people, the White House says.
Aimed mainly at young people, the administration said in a press release that the scheme's objective was "to make it easy for any American to find work tackling the climate crisis while gaining the skills necessary for the clean energy and climate resilience workforce of the future".
"Today is a historic day and a landmark achievement," said the Democratic New York representative Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, who spoke shortly before Biden took the stage.
"[It] serves as a reminder of the power of organizing, of what we can accomplish when young people, climate advocates, labor organizers and working people come together to demand the future we all deserve."
Biden was also joined by the independent Vermont senator Bernie Sanders, one of the architects of the inflation act, who said the climate crisis was an "existential threat".
"Climate change is real, climate change through drought, floods, forest fires, heatwaves and extreme weather disturbances is already causing massive devastation for our country and the entire world," Sanders said.
"If anyone tells you climate change is a hoax, have them talk to farmers whose crop production is dwindling, have them talk to firefighters who risk their lives fighting fires with more severity and size than we've ever seen."
Today's announcements follow climate measures advanced by Biden officials last week, which included restricting oil and gas leases on 13m acres in Alaska, and finalizing a federal land management rule that makes conservation an equal priority to "harmful" private industry activities such as oil drilling at government-owned assets.
Biden has been trying to shore up his support among younger, climate-savvy voters who have been disappointed with the administration's approval last year of oil and gas developments including the huge Willow project in Alaska. Advocates have also been putting pressure on Biden to declare a climate emergency.
He said Republicans posed a threat to climate reforms he had initiated, such as rejoining the Paris agreement that Donald Trump withdrew from.
"Despite the overwhelming devastation in red and blue states, there are still those who deny climate is in crisis," he said. "My Maga Republican friends don't seem to think it's in crisis, they want to repeal the Inflation Reduction Act that provides the funding for a vast majority of these projects, and roll back protections for clean air and clean water.
"Anyone in or out of government who willfully denies the impacts of climate change is condemning the American people to a very dangerous future, and the world, I might add."
Biden's Virginia trip was the first of a packed Earth Week itinerary of visits nationwide by administration officials, including the transportation secretary, Pete Buttigieg, and the energy secretary, Jennifer Granholm, that officials insist will "build a stronger, healthier future for all".
According to the White House, Tuesday's theme will be clean water for all communities; Wednesday will focus on accelerating the US's clean transportation future; Thursday will focus on steps to cut pollution from the power sector and strengthen the US electricity grid; and Friday will see measures to promote cleaner air and healthier schools.
Climate activist groups welcomed Biden's solar energy announcement.
"Solar for all is exactly the type of investment the country needs to reimagine our clean energy future," Jean Su, energy justice program director at the Center for Biological Diversity, said in a statement.
"Broad community-based solar is our brightest hope for protecting people and our climate from the scourge of fossil fuels. These targeted investments mean low-income families get clean energy that is affordable, resilient and protects our ecosystems. It's great to see President Biden jumpstart this landmark program."
#25

Coal-fired power is still enjoying a construction boom in China, but a marked slowdown in the permitting of future plants has given experts hope that the world's biggest emitter may be turning a corner.
China led the world in the construction of new coal-fired power plants in the first half of 2024, with work beginning on more than 41GW of new generation capacity, data published on Thursday showed.
That was as much new coal power capacity as China embarked on during the whole of 2022. It represented 90% of the world's new coal plant construction so far this year.
More could be on the cards: the Chinese government has a target of bringing 80GW of new coal-fired generation capacity online for the whole of 2024.
But while new starts surge ahead, the pipeline of future plants looks as if it could be much smaller. Only 9GW worth of power plants received permits in the first half of 2024, a reduction of 83% compared with the first half of 2023, according to a report by two thinktanks, the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) and Global Energy Monitor.
The slowdown in coal permitting comes as China's renewable energy sector has surged ahead, adding as much new wind and solar generation capacity in 2023 as the UK's total electricity production from all sources.
That increase in renewable power was a key factor in driving down China's coal power generation, by 7% between June 2023 and June 2024. Qi Qin, lead author of Thursday's report and China analyst at CREA, said: "The development of clean energy enables the Chinese government to set more ambitious goals for reducing coal power generation and carbon emissions. China needs to stop allowing room for fossil fuel emissions to grow in its policies."
Power generation is different to capacity. For political and economic reasons, new fossil fuel powered capacity can be added that is not used to its full potential. Similarly, wind and solar are intermittent resources, so the amount of electricity generated can vary.
There are strong political reasons why China might want to increase its coal capacity. The government took fright at droughts in 2022 that vastly diminished the country's hydroelectricity capacity and caused factory shutdowns, and the war in Ukraine has destabilised energy prices globally. After years of relative decline, coal was repositioned by Beijing as the best solution for base load power.
However, coal plants are struggling economically, according to David Fishman, a senior manager at the Lantau Group, an energy consultancy in Shanghai. He said it was no longer profitable in the long term to build coal power plants in China. "The only reason to do so would be strategic reasons," for example pressure from other stakeholders, such as local government officials, who might be concerned about energy security or short-term GDP growth. "Coal power plants lose money right now. They don't have guaranteed uptake ... the ones I talk to mostly say: 'we're in pain,'" Fishman said.
The increase in renewable generation, if coupled with investments in upgrading the electricity grid and potentially reforming the electricity market, could offer China a path to energy security without the dominance of coal, as well as a way to cut greenhouse gas emissions sharply, analysts said.
A demonstration base in Yancheng. Analysts say increasing renewable generation and upgrading the electricity grid could offer China a path to energy security without the dominance of coal. Photograph: Costfoto/NurPhoto/Rex/Shutterstock
Christine Shearer, an analyst at Global Energy Monitor, said: "The steep drop in new coal plant permits is a hopeful sign that China's massive solar and wind builds are dampening its coal ambitions. With clean power now capable of meeting the country's electricity demand growth, China should cancel its remaining coal proposals and accelerate the retirement of its existing coal plants."
Weaning China away from the dirtiest fossil fuel will require facing down the powerful coal lobby, which is entrenched within China's regional and national governing structures. Fishman said that while certain stakeholders, such as officials for coal-producing provinces such as Shaanxi, may still be pushing for continued coal use, "it's hard to see how they'll win".
"Why would you want to build this thing that not only is politically problematic but also doesn't stimulate GDP?" Fishman asked, referring to coal-fired power plants.
Coal producers see the future differently, and are unlikely to give up without a fight. In an article published on Tuesday, Shaanxi Investment Group, a commodities and mining firm, praised Qingshuichuan Energy, one of its subsidiaries that is focused on coal, for its efforts to "ensure an adequate supply of coal" for the peak energy demands of summer.
For the rest of the world, these questions have acute relevance. China is the world's biggest emitter by far, responsible for more than a quarter of global carbon dioxide emissions. The government has promised that emissions will peak by 2030, but most scientists fear this is far too late to limit global temperature rises to 1.5C above preindustrial levels. For China to peak this year, or next, would still give the world a small chance of staving off climate disaster, and analysts believe that with concerted action such a peak is possible - and indeed may already have happened, according to CREA, given the surge in clean power.
China's government will not comment on this speculation, and holds fast to the existing pledge to peak by 2030, made by its president, Xi Jinping, in 2020. A spokesperson said China's energy strategy was based on "the principle of building the new before discarding the old". That phrase, first used by Xi in his speech to the Communist party congress in 2022, reflects the Chinese government's desire to peak emissions in a way that also ensures energy security, something that Beijing has been increasingly concerned about since the war in Ukraine and summer power outages in 2021 and 2022.
"We are exercising better control over the amount and intensity of energy consumption, particularly of fossil fuels, and transition gradually toward controlling both the amount and intensity of carbon emissions," the government spokesperson said.
#26
A handful of wealthy polluting countries led by the US are spending billions of dollars of public money on unproven climate solutions technologies that risk further delaying the transition away from fossil fuels, new analysis suggests.
These governments have handed out almost $30bn in subsidies for carbon capture and fossil hydrogen over the past 40 years, with hundreds of billions potentially up for grabs through new incentives, according to a new report by Oil Change International (OCI), a non-profit tracking the cost of fossil fuels.
To date, the European Union (EU) plus just four countries - the US, Norway, Canada and the Netherlands - account for 95% of the public handouts on CCS and hydrogen.
The US has spent the most taxpayer money, some $12bn in direct subsidies, according to OCI, with fossil fuel giants like Exxon hoping to secure billions more in future years.
The industry-preferred solutions could play a limited role in curtailing global heating, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), and are being increasingly pushed by wealthy nations at the annual UN climate summit.
But carbon capture and storage (CCS) projects consistently fail, overspend or underperform, according to previous studies. CCS - and blue hydrogen projects - rely on fossil fuels and can lead to a myriad of environmental harms including a rise in greenhouse gases and air pollution.
"The United States and other governments have little to show for these massive investments in carbon capture - none of the demonstration projects have lived up to their initial hype," said Robert Howarth, professor of ecology and environmental biology at Cornell University. "It is instructive that industry itself invests very little in carbon capture. This whole enterprise is dependent on government handouts."
With time running out to curtail climate catastrophe, critics of CCS and hydrogen say public money should be focused on proven, less risky solutions such as plugging leaky oil wells, energy efficiency for buildings, transport electrification and renewables that will speed up the green transition.
The subsidies are a "colossal waste of money", according to Harjeet Singh, global engagement director for the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative. "It is nothing short of a travesty that funds meant to combat climate change are instead bolstering the very industries driving it."
The US and Canada have spent more than $4bn to subsidize the capture of CO2 that is then used to extract hard to reach oil reserves, a process known as enhanced oil recovery (EOR), according to the OCI report shared exclusively with the Guardian.
However, proponents argue that more investment is needed in developing CCS and hydrogen technologies, so they can help achieve global climate goals agreed under the Paris accords.
"They are all part of the toolset we need to reach net zero," Astrid Bergmål, state secretary in Norway's ministry of petroleum and energy, told the Guardian.
Norway has so far approved $6bn in subsidies for CCS, an energy-intensive process powered by fossil gas - which the country is also expanding.
The new analysis is based on two OCI databases: one tracking public awards distributed to companies from 1984 to 2024 for carbon capture and fossil-based hydrogen research and development, as well as grants for pilot and commercial projects. The other tracks government policies announced since 2020 in the US, Canada, Australia, the EU and countries in Europe that support grants, loans, tax credits, below market insurance plans and other financial incentives.
"Governments are pouring billions of taxpayer dollars into technologies that have consistently failed to deliver on their promises ... allowing fossil fuel companies to continue business," said Lorne Stockman, research director at OCI.
Subsidies from the US, the world's biggest oil and gas producer where an estimated three-quarters of the CO2 currently captured is used for EOR, could top $100bn, according to OCI analysis.
This is thanks to new policies from the Biden administration, particularly the landmark climate and infrastructure legislation - the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) - which after intense industry lobbying expanded tax benefits for both CCS and hydrogen with few checks and balances.
Yet, experts warn that CCS technology is challenging and unlikely to deliver.
"The history of CCS is depressing ... and no significant innovations have improved CCS's prospects," said Charles Harvey, professor of environmental engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who co-founded the first private CCS startup 15 years ago.
"Nonetheless, we are again wasting money on CCS that could be used instead to effectively cut emissions, distracting ourselves from the necessity of moving away from fossil fuels, and perpetuating a polluting industry whose local harms often fall on minority and economically disadvantaged communities."
Hydrogen, which is currently mostly used for refining oil, fertilizers and processing metals and foods, could be green if companies chose to use water - not gas or coal - as the raw material, and power the process with renewables not fossil fuel.
Yet globally, governments have spent $4.2bn on projects that aim to produce blue hydrogen from fossil fuels using CCS.
The industry claims to have the technology to capture 90% to 95% of CO2, but in reality, it's closer to 12% when every stage of the energy-intensive process is evaluated, according to peer-reviewed research by scientists at Cornell University. "The greenhouse gas footprint for this hydrogen is actually greater than if we were to simply burn natural gas for the energy," said Howarth, a co-author of the groundbreaking study.
Canada is the second largest funder of blue hydrogen after the US with $1.2bn spent to date, mostly at an oil refinery in Alberta where hydrogen is used for upgrading dirty tar sands crude. The net CO2 capture rate from the plant is less than 70%.
The Canadian and US government's did not respond to requests to comment.
Globally, governments hand over between $500bn and $1tn in direct fossil fuel subsidies annually, though in 2022 the true figure was closer to $7tn - when the climate, environmental and health costs were taken into account, according to the IMF. But more than $1tn is now also spent supporting clean energy, according to International Energy Agency (IEA) trackers, so the amount allocated to CCS and hydrogen is relatively small.
Still, after the hottest year ever recorded - and as island nations and other developing countries face an existential threat from sea level rise, desertification, drought, extreme heat, wildfires and floods - only $700m was pledged by governments to the new loss and damage fund at Cop28 - far short of the estimated $400bn needed annually. The financial shortfall for climate adaptation runs into hundreds of billions - and is rising.
Singh, director at the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative, said: "While investing billions in technologies that further entrench fossil fuel use, developed countries simultaneously neglect their moral and financial responsibilities to fund crucial efforts in vulnerable communities ... that's the grim irony."
While the decades-long reputation of CCS has largely been one of "underperformance" and "unmet expectations", according to the IEA in 2023, many experts agree that it could play a role in reducing emissions in polluting industries such as cement, steel and chemicals.
But according to Chris Bataille, an IPCC expert on decarbonizing heavy industry, subsidies must come with conditions and target products, not processes, in order to achieve a just and economically sound green transition.
"I don't think we should be directly subsidizing CCS ever ... but we should directly subsidize clean things that are useful to people. Staggered subsidies for clean iron which is key to making steel, clean ammonia which is key for fertilizers and clean clinker for cement, would channel the market - which is the whole idea of government regulation.
"Companies are designed to make profits, they only consider what is priced, so subsidies should come with conditions, including mandatory net-zero transformation plans," added Batallie, who is also adjunct research fellow at the Columbia University center for global energy policy.
Storage tanks at a carbon capture facility in Blomoyna, Norway. Photograph: Bloomberg/Getty Images
At Cop28 in Dubai, the Netherlands launched a fossil fuel subsidy phase-out coalition amid growing public pressure to cut its financial support for oil and gas, which is currently estimated to be at least $43bn a year.
The government has approved $2.6bn for subsidies requested in 2020, with the vast majority allocated to the Porthos project - that will incentivize some oil majors and chemical companies at the Port of Rotterdam to store captured CO2 in an empty North Sea offshore gas field. (The figure doesn't include subsidies approved in 2022 or requested in 2023.)
A spokesperson from the Dutch climate ministry said that the final amount paid out was expected to be substantially lower as it depends on the market price of carbon and project costs, and that these fossil fuel-powered technologies were key to the country's green transition.
"In the Netherlands, safeguards have been built in for subsidies for CCS, so that these do not come at the cost of alternative, clean energy technologies. Dutch policy aims at minimizing the future role of fossil fuels in the energy system and has set conditions and a time horizon for fossil CCS support."
Climate advocates say the phase-out is too slow.
"This money should be used to get away from fossil fuels and making industrial processes green, rather than these false solutions that are a cash cow for industry - in part because governments take over the risks from market fluctuations in the price of carbon," said Maarten de Zeeuw, a climate and energy campaigner at Greenpeace Netherlands.
A carbon dioxide capture unit attached to a biomass generator at a greenhouse in Egchel, Netherlands. Photograph: Piroschka van de Wouw/Reuters
Norway's first full-scale heavily subsidized CCS project was attached to the Mongstad oil refinery and described in 2007 by then prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, as the country's "moon landing". The project failed, in part due to rising costs, though it did spawn a CCS test facility the government said is "instrumental in technology development".
The country's current flagship CCS project, the Longship, involves capturing CO2 from waste incineration and cement production that will be shipped and stored offshore. Costs here have also been rising - though, according to state secretary Bergmål, rising inflation and supply chain instabilities are also affecting other climate technologies.
OCI claims that Norway is expanding CCS to justify more oil and gas expansion for use producing blue hydrogen for export to Europe - where it is enjoying renewed interest despite evidence that its viability as an alternative fuel will be limited.
Bergmål said: "Managing CO2 from hard-to-abate industries has nothing to do with prolonged fossil fuel extraction. On the contrary, it is an urgently needed climate mitigation measure. One of the key goals of Longship is to provide learning and reduce costs for future projects ... What matters is to produce enough volumes of hydrogen, with low to zero emissions, and at the lowest possible cost."
#27
China is off track on all of its core 2025 climate targets, despite the fact that clean energy is now the biggest driver of the country's economic growth, analysis has found.
After years of extraordinarily rapid growth, China is now grappling with a slowdown that is causing ripples internally and internationally. The government has supercharged the growth of the renewable energy industry but it has simultaneously poured stimulus funds into construction and manufacturing, and continues to approve coal power.
China's total energy consumption increased by 5.7% in 2023, in the first moment since 2005 that demand for energy grew faster than its GDP. China's economy grew by 5.2% last year, a rate that would be rapid for most countries but is slow in comparison with previous rates of growth.
But carbon dioxide emissions have continued to grow, even as economic growth has slowed due to the fact that China's economic growth during and after the Covid-19 pandemic has been highly energy intensive. Between 2021 and 2023, CO2 emissions grew at an average of 3.8% a year, up from 0.9% a year between 2016 and 2020. GDP growth slowed slightly over the same period.

The findings were published in an analysis from Carbon Brief conducted by Lauri Myllyvirta, a lead analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA).
Under the Paris agreement, China's climate pledges require a number of targets to be met by 2025; these include increasing the share of non-fossil energy sources to 20% and reducing the carbon intensity of the economy by 18%. Carbon intensity refers to how many grams of CO2 are released to produce a kilowatt hour of electricity.
However, Myllyvirta's analysis found that China was "way off track" on many of these targets, primarily because of the carbon intensity of recent economic growth. CO2 emissions will have to fall by between 4% and 6% to meet the government's 2025 target, Myllyvirta predicts.
Part of the problem stems from the fact that during the Covid-19 pandemic, the government supported the economy by injecting stimulus measures into the construction and manufacturing sector, "shifting the pattern of growth into a more carbon-intensive direction", said Myllyvirta. At the same time, many other countries targeted their stimulus measures towards households, driving up demand for consumer goods, resulting in an export boom from China.
It is not impossible to do, said Myllyvirta: "Optimistically, these distortions to the economic structure before and during zero-Covid could be reversed, and that combined with the clean energy drive could serve to bring down emissions rapidly."
Around one percentage point of China's CO2 emissions growth last year came from manufacturing clean energy technologies, such as solar PV, electric vehicles and batteries. These products will ultimately lead to a net drop in emissions, although some of that will be felt outside China as goods are exported.
Part of the challenge in understanding China's energy transition is that the numbers involved in every sector are of global significance. Despite the fact that, in 2023, China commissioned as much solar PV as the entire world did in 2022, according to the International Energy Agency, the rapid growth in energy demand in recent years has outstripped the clean energy additions.
On the current trend of increased energy demands, energy production from non-fossil sources would need to grow by more than 11% a year to meet the 2025 target. Currently, renewable energy production is increasing by an annual rate of 8.5%. Clean energy contributed $1.6tn (£1.26tn) to China's economy in 2023, accounting for all of the growth in investment.
And on the target of reducing the carbon intensity of China's economy by 18% by 2025, China has so far managed only a 5% reduction since 2020. That means that CO2 emissions will have to come down in absolute terms from 2023 to 2025 to meet the target.
According to the National Energy Administration, China's installed capacity of renewable energy exceeded 1.45bn kilowatts in 2023, accounting for more than half of the country's total installed power generation capacity.
But a separate report published on Thursday by CREA and Global Energy Monitor found that China approved 114 gigawatts (GW) of coal power in 2023, up from 104 GW in 2022. China's share of global coal emissions surpassed 64% in 2023.
Since Xi Jinping, China's leader, pledged to "strictly control" new coal power in 2021, the approval of new coal has actually increased rapidly. Nearly half of the growth in power generation between 2020 and 2023 came from coal. That is partly because some thermal power developers and government officials see this decade as a window of opportunity in which CO2 emissions can continue to increase before 2030, when Xi has promised they will peak. Still, China is widely expected to meet that target by 2025.
Local governments, particularly mining provinces, often rely on investment in coalmines and thermal power sources to boost their GDP figures.
Myllyvirta said: "The major acceleration in coal consumption growth and in approvals of new coal power plants that has taken place since President Xi made these pledges in 2021 contradicts the commitments - and China needs to take determined action in 2024-25 to avoid failing to respect them."
#28
The world is off track to meet its climate goals and the public is to blame, Darren Woods, chief executive of oil giant ExxonMobil, has claimed - prompting a backlash from climate experts.
As the world's largest investor-owned oil company, Exxon is among the top contributors to global planet-heating greenhouse gas emissions. But in an interview, published on Tuesday, Woods argued that big oil is not primarily responsible for the climate crisis.
The real issue, Woods said, is that the clean-energy transition may prove too expensive for consumers' liking.
"The dirty secret nobody talks about is how much all this is going to cost and who's willing to pay for it," he told Fortune last week. "The people who are generating those emissions need to be aware of and pay the price for generating those emissions. That is ultimately how you solve the problem."
Woods said the world was "not on the path" to cut its planet-heating emissions to net zero by 2050, which scientists say is imperative to avoid catastrophic impacts of global heating. "When are people going to willing to pay for carbon reduction?" said Woods, who has been Exxon's chief executive since 2017.
"We have opportunities to make fuels with lower carbon in it, but people aren't willing to spend the money to do that."
Experts say Woods's rhetoric is part of a larger attempt to skirt climate accountability. No new major oil and gas infrastructure can be built if the world is to avoid breaching agreed temperature limits but Exxon, along with other major oil companies currently basking in record profits, is pushing ahead with aggressive fossil-fuel expansion plans.
"It's like a drug lord blaming everyone but himself for drug problems," said Gernot Wagner, a climate economist at Columbia business school.
"I hate to tell you, but you're the chief executive of the largest publicly traded oil company, you have influence, you make decisions that matter. Exxon are at the mercy of markets but they are also shaping them, they are shaping policy. So no, you can't blame the public for the failure to fix climate change."
Troves of internal documents and analyses have over the past decade established that Exxon knew of the dangers of global heating as far back as the 1970s, but forcefully and successfully worked to sow doubt about the climate crisis and stymie action to clamp down on fossil fuel usage. The revelations have inspired litigation against Exxon across the US.
"What they're really trying to do is to whitewash their own history, to make it invisible," said Robert Brulle, an environment policy expert at Brown University who has researched climate disinformation spread by the fossil-fuel industry.
A 2021 analysis also demonstrated that Exxon had downplayed its own role in the climate crisis for decades in public-facing messaging.
"The playbook is this: sell consumers a product that you know is dangerous, while publicly denying or downplaying those dangers. Then, when the dangers are no longer deniable, deny responsibility and blame the consumer," said Naomi Oreskes, a Harvard historian of science and co-author of the 2021 paper.
Last year, another study co-authored by Oreskes found that Exxon's own scientists "correctly and skillfully" predicted the trajectory of global warming, then spent decades sowing doubt about climate science and policies in order to protect its business model.
In the Tuesday interview, however, Woods says the world "waited too long" to develop carbon-free technologies. He said Exxon "recognized the need to decarbonize" and that a carbon tax would help achieve this, while also defending the oil giant's comparatively meager investment in renewable energy, pointing to focus upon more nascent technologies, such as carbon capture and hydrogen fuels.
Exxon does not "see the ability to generate above-average returns for investors" from established clean energy generation such as wind and solar, Woods said.
"We recognize a need for that. We just don't see that as an appropriate use of ExxonMobil's capabilities," he added.
Woods does not mention that his company lobbied to fend off provisions in an earlier version of the legislation that would have levied heavy taxes on polluting companies to pay for climate efforts, or that a top Exxon lobbyist was filmed saying that the firm's support for a carbon tax was a public relations strategy meant to stall more serious climate policies.
"For decades, they told us that the science was too uncertain to justify action, that it was premature to act, and that we could and should wait and see how things developed," said Oreskes. "Now the CEO says: oh dear, we've waited too long. If this isn't gaslighting, I don't know what is."
Wagner said that Exxon was touting its ambition to slash the emissions of its own operations while also betting that the rest of the world won't do the same, in order to continue selling oil.
"He can't have it both ways in saying 'we are an energy company' but then basically ignoring the cheapest source of electricity in history as something Exxon should be investing in," he said.
The video interview comes as Exxon is pursuing a lawsuit against activist shareholders who are aiming to push Exxon to take up stricter environmental standards. Those shareholders, Woods said, were trying to stop Exxon's central business model of selling oil and gas, which it won't accede to.
"We want to cater to the shareholders who are real investors, who have an interest in seeing this company succeed in generating return on their investments," he said. "We don't feel a responsibility to activists that hijack that process ... and frankly, abuse it to advance an ideology."
Exxon has received subsidies to build out its clean energy business from the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, Fortune chief executive Alan Murray pointed out in the interview. But Woods argued that "building a business on government subsidy is not a long-term sustainable strategy".
"The way that the government is incentivized and trying to catalyze investments in this space is through subsidies," he said. "Driving significant investments at a scale that even gets close to moving the needle is going to cost a lot of money."
But the vast majority of Exxon's own investments are still being put toward fossil fuel expansion, said Brulle.
"This is what they do: they're going to basically blame the victim, the American public," he said.
"They spend on fossil fuels and they spend billions trying to influence public opinion, but we're supposed to foot the bill for the damage."
#29
The problem: rising carbon dioxide in the atmosphere
The level of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, has been rising since the Industrial Revolution and is at its highest in about 4m years. The rate of the rise is even more striking, the fastest for 66m years, with scientists saying the world is in "uncharted territory".
The causes (I): burning fossil fuels
Billions of tonnes of CO2 are still pumped into the atmosphere every year from coal, oil and gas burning. The slight reduction in 2020 as a result of coronavirus lockdowns was no more than a "tiny blip", and emissions have since resumed their upward trajectory.
The causes (II): forest destruction
The felling of forests for timber, beef, soy and palm oil is a big contributor to CO2 emissions. It is also a significant cause of the annihilation of wildlife.
The causes (III): methane emissions
Methane is a potent greenhouse gas and causes 25% of all global heating today. Fossil fuel extraction, cattle, rice paddies and landfills are responsible. There has been a "scary" surge in methane emissions since 2007, according to scientists, potentially due to wetlands heating up.
The consequences: global temperature rise
The planet's average temperature started to climb steadily two centuries ago and has rocketed since the second world war as consumption and population have risen. Many records were smashed in 2023, which will be the hottest year on record. Global heating means there is more energy in the atmosphere, making extreme weather events more frequent and more intense.
The consequences: rising sea levels
Sea levels are inexorably rising as ice on land melts and hotter oceans expand. Sea levels are slow to respond to global heating, so even if the temperature rise is restricted to 2C above pre-industrial levels, one in five people in the world eventually will experience their cities being submerged, from New York to London to Shanghai.
The consequences: shrinking Arctic sea ice
As heating melts the sea ice, it reveals darker water that absorbs more of the sun's heat, causing more heating - one example of the vicious circles in the climate system. Scientists think the changes in the Arctic may be responsible for worsened heatwaves and floods in Eurasia and North America.
The upside (I): wind and solar energy is soaring
Huge drops in cost have helped renewable energy become the cheapest electricity in most places and the exponential growth is expected to continue. But action and support is still required to reach the scale needed, especially in developing countries.
The upside (II): electric vehicles
The global fleet of electric cars and vans is still small compared with those vehicles running on fossil fuels. But sales are growing extremely quickly and tipping points for EV adoption have already been reached in several countries. Electric cars are cheaper to own and run, suggesting they will replace combustion engine vehicles.
The upside (III): battery costs
Plummeting battery costs not only increase electric car sales but can enable renewable energy to be stored while the sun is shining and the wind blows. But other technologies with longer storage duration, such as green hydrogen, will also be needed.
#30
UK households could face higher energy bills next year, after a leading forecaster said electricity market prices will rise in 2024 - and remain well above pre-energy crisis levels for the rest of the decade.
Analysts at Cornwall Insight predicted that Britain's wholesale power prices would rise from an average of £96.64 per megawatt-hour so far this year to £129/MWh next year, due to higher gas prices triggered by the war in Ukraine.
The analysis was undertaken based on the commodity futures markets at the end of September. Since then, gas and electricity markets have climbed further due to fears that the Israel-Hamas war could pose a risk to oil and gas supplies.
Electricity prices were also forecast to stay elevated until the end of the decade, remaining at least 60% higher than they were in 2021 before the global economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic caused markets to climb.
The analysts expect that as more renewable energy connects to the grid, reducing reliance on gas-fired power plants, market prices will begin to fall. However, they will stay above £80/MWh - well above pre-crisis levels.
Tom Edwards, a senior modeller at Cornwall Insight, said slowing the UK's shift towards renewable energy could keep energy bills higher for longer. Cornwall's latest report found the UK was likely to miss its target to increase offshore wind fivefold to 50GW by 2030 due to rising costs in the supply chain.
"Rolling back our net zero ambitions and slowing our transition away from fossil fuels is likely to be a costly delay that will not only see us fall further behind in decarbonising the country but will leave consumers shouldering the prolonged burden of high prices," Edwards said.
"Without a resolute commitment to a greener and more sustainable future, achieving net zero emissions and pre-crisis energy bills becomes an increasingly elusive goal," he added.
Cornwall forecasts that by 2030 offshore wind will make up 26% of the UK's installed electricity capacity, up from about 13% today. Meanwhile, the share of gas power plants will fall from 27% of the UK's total power capacity to 13% by 2030.
"We can see the country is travelling in the right direction towards a renewables-based electricity system. However, our estimates continue to show it is simply not fast enough to deliver on government targets," Edwards said.
The cost of gas and electricity on the wholesale energy markets makes up just over 50% of the typical household bill. The rest of the bill includes charges to pay for grid upgrades, which are needed to connect new renewables, and the cost of government policies such as supporting low-carbon energy projects.
"Time is of the essence, and it is critical that the government reassess its commitment to accelerating renewable energy adoption, which includes being more flexible when setting auction parameters to reach the UK's offshore wind goals," Edwards said.
#31
The EU aims to slash its net greenhouse gas pollution by 90% by 2040 as part of its push to become the world's first climate-neutral continent, the European Commission has announced before elections in June.
Under a landmark proposal laid out by its executive body on Tuesday, the bloc will have to pump 90% less planet-heating gas into the air by 2040 than it did in 1990, a figure which includes the carbon it removes from the atmosphere.
The target is at the bottom end of the 90-95% net cuts that the EU's scientific watchdog recommended in June, and meeting it would require a much faster shift to a clean economy. In the three decades between 1990 and 2021, the EU's 27 member states cut their emissions by just 30%, according to the European Environment Agency, leaving them half as long to do twice the work.
Wopke Hoekstra, the EU climate commissioner, said the target sent a message to the world that Europe "continues to lead the way" on climate action. "Tackling the climate crisis is a marathon, not a sprint. We need to make sure everyone crosses the finish line and nobody is left behind," he said.
The target, which is a recommendation for the next commission after European elections in June, is part of a bid to stop extreme weather from growing more violent. But some of the individual targets were scrapped at the last minute because of protests from farmers that have seen politicians in the EU and its member states row back on plans to make farms pollute less.
Pieter de Pous, a nature policy expert at the climate thinktank E3G, said: "It's hard to find a more fitting use of the metaphor 'cutting off the branch you sit on' than witnessing farmers unite in efforts to undermine the very climate policies designed to protect them from the devastating impacts of climate change."
The final document no longer refers to cutting agricultural emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas belched out by cows, or nitrogen, a pollutant in fertiliser and manure that reacts to form heat-trapping gases. The text instead states that its purpose is to launch the political debate. "It does not propose new policy measures or set new sector-specific targets."
The scrapped farming target is the third concession to farmers in the last week, after Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, told lawmakers on Tuesday morning that she would take back a proposal to use fewer pesticides. Last week she asked member states to delay a key rule to save wildlife and protect soils.
The EU has sped up its energy transition in recent years by building sources of clean electricity, such as wind turbines and solar panels, at a faster pace. Under the new proposal, it plans to use 80% less fossil fuels in the energy sector by 2040 than it did in 2021.
But it has made little progress in cleaning up sectors like food and transport.
Keeping the exemption in the agriculture sector "sets a worrisome precedent as negotiations on climate ambition begin", said De Pous.
The 2040 target was announced on Tuesday in the European parliament alongside a new strategy to capture carbon. The commission had previously proposed a target to capture 50m tonnes of CO2 a year by 2030 and wants that to rise to 280m tonnes by 2040.
By then, the commission has suggested, the EU should emit less than 850 megatonnes of CO2e and remove up to 400 megatonnes from land and industry.
Kadri Simon, the EU energy commissioner, said renewables and energy efficiency were still "central" to climate neutrality but that reaching net zero emissions also meant using technologies to manage carbon.
Environmental groups and scientists are divided on how big a role capturing carbon from factories and removing it from the atmosphere should play in the energy transition. Experts have said that the technology is the most promising way to clean up some heavy industries like cement, and it could also compensate for leftover emissions from sectors that are hard to clean up.
But the promise of carbon capture in the future is also used by governments and oil companies to keep burning fuels that pollute the air with other toxic particles, and to allow them to cut emissions more slowly today.
Silvia Pastorelli, a climate and energy campaigner at Greenpeace, said the commission's plans did not meet the EU's responsibility to fight climate breakdown. "While it sounds like a big number, this target uses some creative accounting with promised carbon capture to hide much lower actual emission cuts."
She added: "Without honesty about an end to fossil fuels and finally tackling farming emissions, it's hard to see how the EU will even clear this too-low bar it's setting itself."
#32
More than 1,000 new homes are expected to be built across northern Scotland linked to a £20bn investment in grid infrastructure needed to meet the UK's green energy targets.
SSEN Transmission, a subsidiary of the electricity firm SSE, has signed a deal with local councils and housing associations in the Highlands to fund at least 1,000 new properties as well as the refurbishment of existing, unoccupied ones.
The proposal, described by the industry body RenewableUK as "unique and novel", follows mounting anger in rural areas about the modest financial benefits many communities that host windfarms, overhead lines and electricity substations receive from those projects.


The company, which has a monopoly on building and maintaining the electricity grid in northern Scotland, plans to spend £20bn by 2030 to channel power from new offshore and onshore windfarms to be built as part of the UK government's efforts to decarbonise the electricity supply.
It expects to employ thousands of workers across the Highlands, the Outer Hebrides and Orkney and Shetland - areas suffering from depopulation driven by an affordable housing crisis. That will peak at a workforce of nearly 5,000 people in 2027 and a significant number of those will need new homes.
SSEN Transmission said it will fund the building of those homes by guaranteeing long-lease tenancies as a "pathfinder investment mechanism", the bulk of them designed as affordable homes for local people.
Alongside other "accommodation villages" using temporary housing, it also expects to refurbish vacant homes and to renovate derelict properties, handing those over to local councils and social landlords after its workforce has left.
Rob McDonald, SSEN Transmission's managing director, said: "This is a significant and innovative contribution to addressing the housing challenges in the north of Scotland, and it also demonstrates how we can work in partnership to develop imaginative proposals that will deliver new homes and act as a template for other developers."
The policy, which has been welcomed by Scotland's housing minister, Paul McLennan, and local council leaders, follows signals from the UK government and is expected to bring in new rules on how the energy industry shares the profits from renewables with local people.
The proposals highlight significant disputes about the definition of community benefit.
James Robottom, the head of policy at RenewableUK, said ministers should be cautious about imposing fixed rules on community benefit because that raised questions for other big infrastructure projects, and could stifle creative ideas.
He said SSEN Transmission's proposals were the most ambitious and innovative community benefit plan he had encountered. "What this demonstrates is the need for flexibility, in working with the community and understanding what the wider community needs," he said.
Torcuil Crichton, the Labour MP for Na h-Eileanan an Iar, the Western Isles, and a member of the House of Commons energy committee, said that while these homes were welcome, it was important to distinguish between the benefits from building new infrastructure and sharing in the long-term profits it then generated.
"We should all have a share in the wealth of the wind, which is going to be produced around our coastline," Crichton said. "The wind belongs to no man."
#33
The government's official climate watchdog has appointed the head of the energy industry's trade association to lead its work helping to drive the UK's emissions to net zero by 2050.
Emma Pinchbeck, the head of Energy UK, will take up the role of chief executive of the Climate Change Committee (CCC) from early next month after four years at the helm of the trade association.
The former deputy of RenewableUK will replace Chris Stark, who was appointed to lead the government's "mission control centre" on clean energy, a Covid vaccine-style taskforce aimed at delivering clean and cheaper power by 2030.
Pinchbeck was tapped for the role earlier this year and told the Guardian in August that "change can be quite frightening" for rural communities likely to host renewable energy infrastructure.
Ed Miliband, the energy secretary, said Pinchbeck would join the CCC at "a pivotal point" in the UK's journey to net zero, halfway through a "decisive decade to halt climate change".
"Following her leadership at Energy UK, [Pinchbeck] is well placed to advise and challenge government on our net zero goals - ensuring we meet our climate commitments with ambition and urgency," Miliband said.
He added that Pinchbeck's "extensive experience" leading the decarbonisation of the energy industry underscores "how the economics of clean energy are now aligned with climate policy, driving both environmental protection and economic growth".
Pinchbeck was appointed Energy UK's chief executive in January 2020 months before the Covid-19 pandemic led to record low energy market prices that wiped billions from the market value of major energy companies. The sharp bounceback in energy prices in 2021 caused more than 30 energy suppliers to go bust. Russia's invasion of Ukraine in early 2022 pushed up energy prices across Europe further and forced the UK government to step in to subsidise bills.
Pinchbeck said: "Energy has moved from the fringes to the very centre of economic policy and I hope that I have played my part in making sure that the importance of our sector and of the energy transition is clear to government.
"I am excited to bring my experience and knowledge of a decade in energy to the challenge of decarbonising our economy at speed with tangible benefits to the people of the UK."
#34
The UK's transition to net zero is under threat as delays in approving new infrastructure put billions of pounds of investment in offshore wind schemes and other vital upgrades at risk, big ports have said.
The British Ports Association (BPA) has written to the government and Labour calling for action to clear the backlog of harbour orders, the legislation needed for ports to make infrastructure changes to support offshore wind projects.
The shadow energy security secretary, Ed Miliband, this week promised Labour will take lead on global efforts to tackle the climate crisis if it wins Thursday's election.

Port authorities hope to take advantage of the growth of the offshore wind industry - seen as vital to hitting the UK's legal commitment to net zero carbon emissions by 2050 - by upgrading their infrastructure to allow the assembly and maintenance of turbines on site.
Some ports, however, have been waiting for nearly four years for orders to be signed off, more than four times longer than expected, while other schemes have failed to get off the ground over fears the delays will make them unviable.
The BPA, whose members own and operate 350 ports and facilities, has estimated that it could take nearly nine years to clear all existing orders, while saying that applications are likely to increase in number in the coming years to meet growing demand for offshore wind schemes.
Harbour orders are legislative consents given to ports to construct new infrastructure by the Marine Management Organisation (MMO), a public body.
Ports also require harbour orders to give them new legal powers, enabling them to borrow funds or enter joint ventures, which are essential for the planning of facilities such as upgrades to allow work on turbines or cruise terminals.
The BPA director of policy and external affairs, Mark Simmonds, said significant port development was needed in the coming years to meet the growing demand for offshore wind, as well as growth in cargo and cruises.
"It is extremely regrettable that a single point of failure in processing relatively simple consents at a regulator can threaten billions of pounds of port investment and ultimately put our net zero ambitions at risk," he said.
The BPA has told Labour that its £1.8bn manifesto pledge to upgrade UK ports could be held back unless immediate action is taken to speed up consents.
The number of approvals has dropped off significantly, with only four harbour orders receiving the green light in the past two years, compared with nine in 2021.
Falmouth Harbour, which has been waiting almost two years to secure a new order, said the delays were preventing it from progressing plans to tap into floating offshore wind projects in the Celtic Sea.
The harbour's chief executive, Miles Carden, said: "The significant time delays are a massive distraction."
The Port of Southampton submitted its application for new powers in June 2020 but has still yet to secure an order, and the Port of Plymouth has been waiting three years for MMO approval. Industry experts believe the body's lack of legal resources is behind the delays.
Associated British Ports, the country's biggest port operator, said the delays were unacceptable and holding up a number of its important operational improvement projects.
Tim Morris of the ABP said: "Without more capacity at the MMO or alternative routes to process applications, the potential for ABP and other port operators to grow our capability to handle the trade Britain needs and play a greater role in the energy transition risks being lost."
Offshore wind provided about 17% of the UK's energy in 2023, with the government targeting 50GW by 2030.
A report by Renewable UK last year estimated that investment of around £4bn would be needed at ports to produce 34GW of energy from floating offshore wind by 2040.
Lara Moore, the head of marine at the law firm Ashfords, said it was aware of projects failing at an early stage because they were unlikely to obtain consents within the two- to three-year window they needed to become operational.
"For offshore wind customers who are trying to bring in turbines, you've got to be able to react. You can't say to a prospective customer, 'yes, we are really interested but we can't start for another four years because we are waiting for the consent'," she said.
A spokesperson for the MMO said the application process typically takes about three years.
"The present volume of applications and the resulting perceived delays were created by the large volume of applications submitted ahead of two price increases to harbour order fees in 2022 and 2023," the spokesperson said.
"The processing of these applications is complex and time consuming and the MMO is presently not fully cost recovering for work undertaken for this function."
The Department for Transport said it was working with the body and ports to improve the process.
#35
When Bryn Hawkins worked in coalmines through the 1960s and early 1970s he says few understood the impact the burning of fossil fuels would have on the planet.
Now, public officials are hoping disused mines that provided millions of tonnes of fossil fuels could be used as a potential source of renewable energy across the country.
It has already been a success in Gateshead, where the council-owned Gateshead Energy Company is using warm water from the extensive network of old mine workings 150 metres below the town to supply heat and hot water.
Other authorities are catching on to the potential with the metro mayor for the west of England, Dan Norris, betting £1.5m that some of the 100-plus mines in Somerset and South Gloucestershire will be able to provide a renewable source of heat in the region.
Speaking at the launch of a mapping study in the former mining town of Radstock, Somerset, Hawkins, 82, is buoyed up by the prospect of the mines that provided a livelihood for him and his family being repurposed for the benefit of the environment.
"It's wonderful," he says. "In my lifetime, the concerns about the environment have come up relatively recently. We didn't think anything of the smoke going out of the chimneys. But now there's more interest, more attention - and I understand it a little bit more."
When mines were up and running they were pumped dry so miners could access the coal. When they were closed, the pumps were turned off and the mines were flooded again.
The water is heated by geothermal energy, the heat from the Earth's core, and in some places can reach temperatures of about 20C.
Dan Mallin Martin, a hydrogeologist with the Coal Authority, the public body responsible for managing the effects of past coalmining, says this naturally heated water can be brought up through shafts or boreholes and passed through a heat exchanger - extracting the heat from the water.
"Typically we can take out around five to 8C, which doesn't sound like a lot, but if you pass that to a heat pump, which is effectively a fridge in reverse, it boosts the temperature to something we can use - something like 60 or 70 degrees centigrade - that can go into people's homes, people's businesses, into hospitals, heat networks, many different end users.
"That's a great way to make use of that and they can be really efficient. And really low carbon."
The process has no net water consumption - that is it does not take out more than it uses - as the mine water is put back into the flooded mines and recycled.
"The transition to heat pumps as an energy source is very important and that's one of our options for decarbonising our heating requirements across the UK," Mallin Martin said. "With heat pumps, ground source options and mine water, we can feed into that decarbonisation, especially if we couple it with green electricity like solar panels and wind."
The Gateshead Energy Company powers its centralised heat pump with a solar farm and estimates to be saving about 1,800 tonnes of CO2 a year.
There are international examples of this tech being used successfully. The mine water project in Heerlen, in the Netherlands, is described as the "poster child" for the innovation.
"There's a real green incentive to make the most of this and it certainly supports the levelling up agenda in the communities on the coalfield by delivering secure, local, low-carbon heat," said Mallin Martin.
Like a lot of nascent energy solutions, political will is also key. Norris, who has been mayor in the west of England since 2021 and is from a mining family, has committed £1.5m to a mapping study to establish the extent of the mine network in Somerset and South Gloucestershire. Once this is established, the authority will zone in on the most viable locations for further tests.
"The synergy is fantastic that mines that contributed to CO2 emissions could now hold the key to clean, green energy," Norris said. "Heat from mines has national, and possibly global, implications too.
"If the cost of living crisis tells us anything, it tells us that the cost of energy is critical, not just to the poorest in our communities, but actually everybody and businesses as well. So we have got to make the cost of energy much cheaper.
"And I believe that this is an environmentally important way of producing that energy, but also a cost-effective way of producing energy that can heat up our economy and help cool down our planet and I'm excited about that."
#36
Nearly half of experts surveyed by a climate thinktank believe China's carbon dioxide emissions have already peaked, or will do so in 2025, reflecting increasing optimism about the country's green transition at a time when it is being called on to take a leading position on global climate action.
According to a report published on Tuesday by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA), a research organisation, 44% of climate experts from academia and industry believe that China's CO2 emissions will peak, at the latest, in 2025. In last year's survey, only 21% of experts gave the same response.
There is also more optimism about China reducing its reliance on coal. Asked if they believed that its coal consumption had already peaked, 36% of experts said yes, up from 20% last year.
China's official targets are to reach peak carbon emissions by 2030 and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. Beijing has also pledged to "strictly control" the use of coal during the 14th "five-year plan", which covers the period until the end of 2025.
Coal accounts for nearly 80% of China's fossil fuel emissions.
"China already plans to reduce its coal consumption after 2026 but this cut will definitely have to be pretty drastic and fast if China wants to achieve the 2060 carbon neutrality goal," said Wang Xiaojun, the founder of People of Asia for Climate Solutions, a climate NGO based in Manila.
But leaders' concerns about energy security, which intensified after several parts of China experienced power blackouts in 2021 and 2022, and after the war in Ukraine destabilised oil supplies, means that "China has not yet talked about coal phase-out", said Wang. That is despite the fact that energy experts argue greater diversity in China's energy mix and improvements to renewable energy infrastructure are also effective ways of ensuring energy security, without relying on backup coal-fired power plants.
China is also a world leader when it comes to investing in clean energy. Previous analysis by Lauri Myllyvirta, lead analyst at CREA, found that clean energy contributed a record 11.4tn yuan (£154.4bn) to China's economy last year, and was the biggest driver of GDP growth.
In the past two years, China has focused on rebuilding its post-Covid economy by pivoting towards hi-tech, green industries. These have been called the "new three": solar panels, electric vehicles and batteries, and have attracted huge levels of investment.
Shi Xunpeng, one of the CREA report's authors, said: "Clean energy industries have emerged as key drivers of economic growth. As China continues its transition, the benefits are becoming increasingly clear."
Analysts are also focused on whether China can reduce the carbon intensity of its economy - the amount of CO2 released to produce a single unit of electricity.
"In order to align with the Paris agreement ... China will need to either speed up renewable energy deployment even further or guide economic development in a less energy-intensive direction," said Myllyvirta.
As the country that is responsible for 90% of the growth in CO2 emissions since 2015, China's plans will shape the future of the global transition. But the country is generally conservative when it comes to targets. Anders Hove, senior research fellow, Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, said: "It's unlikely there will be any commitment to setting a quantitative emissions target that goes beyond present policies, let alone quantifying a decline in total emissions."
China's approach to climate targets is: "If you say it, do it. If you can't do it, don't say it," Hove said. "Whereas many foreign leaders see value in aspirational goals, and not infrequently dial them back when the economics or political winds change, this is viewed in a negative light on the Chinese side."
 This article was amended on 27 November 2024. An earlier version said that People of Asia for Climate Solutions was based in Shanxi, China, when it is based in Manila.
#37
By increasing its use of renewable energy, the US has not only slashed its planet-warming emissions but also improved its air quality, yielding hundreds of billions of dollars of benefits, a new report has found.
The study, published in Cell Reports Sustainability on Wednesday and based on publicly available data, focuses on uptick of renewable energy in the US from 2019 to 2022.
"From 2019 through 2022, wind and solar generation increased by about 55%," said Dev Millstein, a scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. "By 2022, wind and solar provided roughly 14% of total electricity needs for the US."
During that time period, by reducing the use of fossil fuel power plants, the nation's use of wind and solar power cut its carbon dioxide emissions by 900m metric tons, the authors found. That's the equivalent of taking 71m cars off the road every year.
Those major climate benefits can obscure the air quality benefits renewable power yielded, wrote the authors, from the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and the renewable consulting firm Clean Kilowatts. To illuminate those co-benefits, the researchers quantified how much the use of wind and solar reduced toxic air emissions, focusing specifically on sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen dioxides (NOx), which are both produced during fossil fuel combustion.
They found emissions of SO2 and NOx - both linked to increased asthma risk and a variety of other health issues - decreased by a total of 1m metric tons over that three-year period.
To determine the impact of that reduction on public health, the authors "used air quality models to track the population exposed to pollution from power plants", Millstein said. They also employed epidemiological research to examine the effects of those emissions, and quantified the benefits by using an Environmental Protection Agency dollar value establishing the value of reducing the risk of early death across the population, he said.
All told, the emission reductions from SO2 and NOx provided $249bn of climate and health benefits to the US, the authors found - a figure Millstein said he found was "noteworthy".
The study went on to examine the benefits wind and solar offer to particular regions of the United States. Wind power, for instance, is particularly beneficial to the across the Central states due to the displaced emissions on the local power grids; the same is true of solar power in the Carolinas. It's an aspect of the research that Jeremiah Johnson, a climate and energy professor at North Carolina State University, who did not work on the study, applauded.
"These findings can help us target future wind and solar development to provide the greatest climate and health benefits," said Johnson, whose work is cited in the study.
He said he hopes the paper helps the public focus on the benefits wind and solar are already creating.
The public "is often focused on the challenges we face" when it comes to ecological damage, he said. "But it is also important to recognize when something is working."
#38
Major fossil fuel companies have committed tens of millions of pounds in funding to UK universities since 2022, it can be revealed, despite many of these institutions having actively pledged to divest from oil and gas.
According to freedom of information requests submitted by the climate journalism site DeSmog, more than £40.4m in research agreements, tuition fees, scholarships, grants and consultancy fees have been pledged to 44 UK universities by 32 oil, coal and gas companies since 2022.
The largest contributors were Shell, the Malaysian state-owned oil company Petronas, and BP. These three companies account for more than 76% of the total figure awarded, having given £20.98m, £5.19m and £4.89m respectively.
A further 10 companies made up nearly 20% of the remaining contributions during this period: Sinopec, Equinor, BHP Group, Total Energies, Eni SPA, Saudi Aramco, ExxonMobil, Kellas Midstream, Ithaca Energy and Chevron.
Previous reporting from openDemocracy and the Guardian found that between 2017 and December 2021, £89m in funding was given to UK universities by some of the world's biggest fossil fuel companies.
These partnerships have shown no sign of abating, and DeSmog's research shows an additional £40m has been pledged since 2022, even after 102 higher education institutions promised to stop taking funding from the fossil fuel industry.
The top 10 beneficiaries of fossil fuel financial commitments since 2022
The Green party MP Caroline Lucas said: "Young people care so deeply about protecting the planet because their futures are on the line. Yet fossil fuel giants are putting that future at risk with their planet-wrecking pollution, and then attempting to youthwash their reputation by handing over dirty money to universities.
"If we're going to tackle the climate emergency and secure a livable future for the next generation, educational institutions should cut all ties with fossil fuel companies immediately."
The figures do not include the amount held in fossil fuel investments by universities. Research by DeSmog indicates that at least 18 higher education institutions held direct investments in 25 fossil fuel companies over the relevant time period, collectively worth a further £8.1m.
Many top universities also hold stakes in high-value pooled investment funds that are pouring hundreds of millions into fossil fuel companies. Research conducted by the student campaign group People & Planet estimates that, as of July 2022, as much as £319m was still held in these funds by universities across the UK, including some institutions that have made promises to divest.
More than 65% of the country's higher education institutions have refused to make further fossil fuel investments, potentially removing £17.7bn from the reach of the industry, while 51 universities have yet to divest from oil and gas.
Laura Clayson, the climate campaigns manager at People & Planet, said: "We say to those 51 universities left to divest: the student movement will remain unwavering in its demands for justice until our victory list includes every single one of you."
The University of Exeter has received the most from fossil fuel firms since 2022, having signed a £14.7m, five-year deal with Shell in November for a project on "carbon storage and sequestration".
According to the contract award notice, the project is part of a "wider Shell-led research programme focused on sequestration which aligns with Shell's target to be a net zero emissions energy business by 2050".
Last year, Shell produced only 0.02% of its energy from renewable sources, and this year has dropped its target to cut oil production.
The company recently abandoned plans to cut oil production by 1%-2% each year until 2030, and will be investing £33bn in oil and gas production between 2023 and 2035, compared with just £8bn-£12bn in "low-carbon" products.
Shell claims it has reduced oil production more quickly than expected, though the company's planned emissions between 2018 and 2030 are estimated to account for nearly 1.6% of the global carbon budget.
Shell declined to comment. A University of Exeter spokesperson said its work with Shell would "contribute to the global race to net zero".
Recent research from the University of Queensland shows more than half of the world's top fossil fuel producers will fail to meet climate targets unless they expand plans to decarbonise. A UN report has said the world will miss its climate targets unless it commits to "phasing out all unabated fossil fuels".
Imperial College London has received the second-highest amount of funding from fossil fuel firms since 2022, at £6.7m, having already received £54m from oil and gas companies between 2017 and 2021.
A spokesperson for Imperial said it pledged in 2020 to only engage in research partnerships "with fossil fuel companies where the research forms part of their plans for decarbonisation, and only if the company demonstrates a credible strategic commitment to achieving net zero by 2050".
The university has maintained a working relationship with 13 fossil fuel companies since 2022.
The University of Manchester houses the International Centre for Advanced Materials research unit, a collaboration between BP and leading universities in the UK and US, including Manchester, Cambridge and Imperial. The centre's website says it supports "BP's ambitions to become a net zero company by 2050".
BP generated just 0.17% of its energy from renewable sources in 2022. In the first half of last year, the company spent more than 10 times the amount on new oil and gas projects than it did on "low carbon" energy. In 2022, 92.7% of all activity for BP and Shell went into fossil fuel investment.
As with Shell, BP posted record profits in 2022, of about £23bn, while scaling back plans to cut emissions by 2050, saying it needed to keep investing in new oil and gas to meet consumer demand. BP did not respond to a request for comment.
The University of Manchester's funding agreements with BP stretch back to 2008, when it was selected by the company to run its Projects and Engineering College. The university has also received money from Shell and TotalEnergies.
A spokesperson for the institution said: "Since 2019 all new research funded in the BP ICAM has been focused on topics in materials sciences that support the energy transition, providing research to support BP's goal to become a net zero company by 2050."
A spokesperson for Heriot-Watt, which received the third-largest amount of funding, at just over £6m, said the university was committed to a rapid and just energy transition, led by our world-class research and teaching. We work in collaboration with the energy sector to develop education and research opportunities related to net zero, responsible consumption of oil and gas, and the transition to renewable energy sources."
Fossil fuel companies have pledged to fund scholarships and tuition fees across at least 17 universities since 2022.
The Italian energy multinational Eni funded a scholarship programme at the University of Oxford's Saïd Business School in 2022 called the Africa Scholarship, as well as a scholarship programme with St Antony's College, Oxford.
Oxford has previously said it "receives funding from and donations from companies and organisations from the fossil fuel sector" typically at an average of £3m a year in research funding and £2m in philanthropic donations. It says the research funding is equivalent to less than 1% of the university's research turnover.
#39
Progress in fighting the climate crisis is slow and good news rare. But an important announcement was made by Indonesia at the recent G20 and got buried by the noise of COP29.
President Prabowo Subianto said: "We plan to phase out coal-fired and all fossil-fueled power plants within the next 15 years. Our plan includes building over 75GW of renewable energy capacity during this time."
He said Indonesia is experiencing the direct effects of global heating, including rising sea levels along the north coast of Java: "This issue will exacerbate poverty and hunger. Therefore, for Indonesia, there is no alternative. We are fully committed to taking decisive actions to reduce global temperatures, protect the environment, and address the crisis."
The move to end coal use is "very significant" and a surprise, said Matt Webb, at thinktank E3G and a former UK government official who worked on the Just Energy Transition Partnership through which rich G7 nations are helping to fund Indonesia's energy transition.
"Indonesia is the fifth or sixth biggest global emitter and it's been growing its coal pipeline rapidly for the last 10 years," he said, adding that it has also been the world's biggest coal exporter in recent years. "So this is a country with huge coal reserves and which had a huge new coal plant pipeline. Until the Cop26 summit in 2021, it hadn't really indicated that it would change that approach."
"So what's happened in the last two years is really dramatic - it's a significant turnaround for a major exporter and a major user of coal power," he said. Coal is the most polluting all fossil fuels and its use must end to halt global heating.
Indonesia is also home to vast forests, which have suffered extensive destruction in the past for palm oil and timber production. Deforestation there fell rapidly from 2017-2022, but nickel mining has caused a recent spike.
Subianto also said his country would increase biodiesel use to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. Producing diesel from crops like palm oil has caused deforestation in the past. "That will have to be watched very carefully," Webb said. "But we do also use biomass in the UK."
#40

Western Australia's greenhouse gas emissions are rising with little sign that the main power grid can decarbonise rapidly, leaving other states to make bigger cuts if Australia's legislated carbon reduction goals are to be met.
Modelling results presented to the state government late last year and obtained by Guardian Australia showed that the state's carbon emissions in 2024 are on track to reach 91.5m tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent, or about 20% above 2005 levels.
Australia's emissions reached 459m tonnes CO2-e in the year to December 2023, according to preliminary federal data. That tally was about 26% below 2005 levels and still well shy of the legislated 43% reduction target.
Unlike others states, WA does not have its own 2030 target. The Labor-led Cook government is considering legislating its goal for 2035 once it sees what the federal government settles on.
One scenario put forward in the modelling by Climateworks and CSIRO had the main power grid serving the bulk of WA's population reducing 2005-level emissions 2% by 2030 and 20% by 2035 based on present policies. Those "significant emissions reductions" in the South West Interconnected System, would need to overcome "key barriers", including a lack of transmission capacity.
Brad Pettitt, the sole Greens MP in state parliament, said WA lagged other states even though its government-owned grid offered a means to expedite the take-up other states such as Victoria lacked. Any 2035 goal is unlikely to be agreed by the WA government before 2026 at the earliest.
"We have 10% of Australia's population but 17% of emissions," Pettitt said. "We are a huge outlier.
"What's more disturbing is we have no serious plan to get them down this decade. Nothing is planned at all."
State-owned Western Power, for instance, takes up to five years to grant approvals for new wind and solar farms to be connected to the grid. Even if they do, developers have to stump up $100,000 per megawatt of capacity to pay for transmission that they then hand over to the state, he said.
WA's relatively high dependence on the growing mining and gas sector, including downstream processing of raw materials, has resulted in carbon emissions rising even as other states and the federal government introduce policies to cut their pollution.
WA and the Northern Territory are also not connected to the national electricity market that serves most of the rest of the country, with states exporting and importing power between them.
Gas plays a bigger role in WA power supply than elsewhere, making up about 38% of Swis electricity in the wholesale market in the year to last June, ahead of coal's share of 27%, wind's 16% and solar farms less than 2%. About 38% of WA homes have rooftop solar, supplying about 15.5% and rising in capacity by about 1 megawatt a day.
A survey commissioned by Pettitt and conducted by the independent analyst Fraser Maywood found that new energy projects in WA - whether under construction or starting operation - had flatlined.
WA has installed 1.2 gigawatts of solar and windfarms in the past 20 years. The government's own modelling showed WA would need to bring on 50GW of new large-scale renewables - or 63 times the amount of solar and 16 times the wind - by 2042.
"It is abundantly clear that to ramp up renewable energy on a scale that is needed by the government's own forecasts requires an urgent and dramatic shift in government policy," the report, obtained by Guardian Australia, found.

The slowdown in the South West Interconnected System project contrasted with the official government position that there were "a large number of renewable energy projects in the pipeline", it said.
Industry representatives interviewed for the survey identified "significant challenges" such as land and network access by the state grid operations. But they had "a universal fear that voicing these concerns may harm future prospects".
A government spokesperson did not respond to questions about the modelling but said the state recognised "the need to take urgent action to address climate change" and was committed to achieving net zero emissions by 2050.
"While our state's path to net zero will be unique given its economy is supported by hard-to-abate industries, WA is well placed to play a critical a role in the global energy transition as a renewable hydrogen and critical minerals exporter," the spokesperson said. "Our government's decision to retire all state-owned coal-fired power plants by 2030 will play a major part in WA's decarbonisation efforts.
The government had committed to invest more than $3.8bn in wind generation and energy storage, he said. If invested, emissions in the main grid would be cut by 40%.
Pettitt said there was a "real danger" the renewables would not progress on time, resulting in the state instead commissioning more gas-fired power plants.
Other states were already picking up between 20m and 30m tonnes of CO2-e a year because of WA's outsized emissions. That load could swell even more if WA used more gas.
"These investments aren't short term and nor are their emissions," Pettitt said.
#41
The vast majority of the environmental projects most frequently used to offset greenhouse gas emissions appear to have fundamental failings suggesting they cannot be relied upon to cut planet-heating emissions, according to a new analysis.
The global, multibillion-dollar voluntary carbon trading industry has been embraced by governments, organisations and corporations including oil and gas companies, airlines, fast-food brands, fashion houses, tech firms, art galleries and universities as a way of claiming to reduce their greenhouse gas footprint.
It works by carbon offset credits being tradable "allowances" or certificates that allows the purchaser to compensate for 1 ton of carbon dioxide or the equivalent in greenhouse gases by investing in environmental projects that claim to reduce carbon emissions.
But there is mounting evidence suggesting that many of these offset schemes exaggerate climate benefits and underestimate potential harms.
In a new investigation, the Guardian and researchers from Corporate Accountability, a non-profit, transnational corporate watchdog, analysed the top 50 emission offset projects, those that have sold the most carbon credits in the global market.
According to our criteria and classification system:
* A total of 39 of the top 50 emission offset projects, or 78% of them, were categorised as likely junk or worthless due to one or more fundamental failing that undermines its promised emission cuts.
* Eight others (16%) look problematic, with evidence suggesting they may have at least one fundamental failing and are potentially junk, according to the classification system applied.
* The efficacy of the remaining three projects (6%) could not be determined definitively as there was insufficient public, independent information to adequately assess the quality of the credits and/or accuracy of their claimed climate benefits.
* Overall, $1.16bn (£937m) of carbon credits have been traded so far from the projects classified by the investigation as likely junk or worthless; a further $400m of credits bought and sold were potentially junk.
The 50 most popular global projects include forestry schemes, hydroelectric dams, solar and wind farms, waste disposal and greener household appliances schemes across 20 (mostly) developing countries, according to data from AlliedOffsets, the most comprehensive emissions trading database, which tracks projects from inception. They account for almost a third of the entire global voluntary carbon market (VCM), suggesting that junk or overvalued carbon credits that exaggerate emission reduction benefits could be the norm.
In our analysis, a project was classified as likely junk if there was compelling evidence, claims or high risk that it cannot guarantee additional, permanent greenhouse gas cuts among other criteria. In some cases, there was evidence suggesting the project could leak greenhouse gas emissions or shift emissions elsewhere. In other cases, the climate benefits appeared to be exaggerated or the project would have happened independently - with or without the voluntary carbon market.
come on the eve of the UN climate ambition summit in New York amid mounting concerns that world leaders will make further climate pledges that rely on what non-industry experts increasingly refer to as flawed market-driven solutions rather than justly and rapidly transitioning off fossil fuels.
"The ramifications of this analysis are huge, as it points to systemic failings of the voluntary market, providing additional evidence that junk carbon credits pervade the market," said Anuradha Mittal, director of the Oakland Institute thinktank. "We cannot afford to waste any more time on false solutions. The issues are far-reaching and pervasive, extending well beyond specific verifiers. The VCM is actively exacerbating the climate emergency."
The certifiers/registries with most projects in the top 50 said the VCM was an important tool in fighting the climate crisis and that their methodologies and safeguards were continually improving.
Independent experts say that to have any chance of being effective, carbon credits must be tied to new and permanent emissions-reducing activities which lead to additional cuts that would not have happened otherwise - and should not lead to collateral damage to the environment or communities. Evidence of overestimation on how much carbon pollution a project is really saving, either intentionally or unintentionally, is also key to determining whether a project is able to guarantee promised benefits.
Our analysis builds on previous independent investigations and academic research into the efficacy and weaknesses of the VCM in mitigating global heating, as the climate breakdown intensifies. It draws on information from public and private sources including academic studies, civil society research, offset project certifiers/registries, private sector databases and ratings, and media investigations. In addition, we assessed the strength and rigorousness of the available evidence and took this into account for our grading of each project.
The Guardian/Corporate Accountability classification system assessed whether each offset project could be counted upon to lead to the promised additional, permanent emission cuts - or not. Assessing the health, social, economic or other local benefits - or harms - were beyond the scope of this investigation and did not influence the classification.
Strong evidence of at least one fundamental failing recorded means the promised emission reductions - which is the presumed primary objective of the VCM and every offsets project - cannot be guaranteed and was therefore classified as likely junk or worthless.
According to our research, more than a third of the top 50 projects had some evidence of three or more fundamental failings. In one case, a giant forest conservation project in Zimbabwe was reported to have had so many exaggerated and inflated claims - and probably shifted emissions elsewhere - that it was described as "having more financial holes than Swiss cheese". Bloomberg reported rating experts who said the project's emissions cuts were overestimated by five to 30-fold.
In the US, the most problematic project is the world's largest carbon capture and storage plant in Wyoming, which has benefited from generous taxpayer subsidies, but where the vast majority of the captured CO2 has been released into the atmosphere or sold to other fossil fuel companies to help extract hard-to-reach oil, according to the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis. It is certified by the American Carbon Registry (ACR), which said that new carbon credits have not been issued for 15 years - although corporations are still retiring or purchasing old ones to offset emissions.
Four carbon markets experts said the findings were based on solid methodology and shine a light on the pitfalls of market-driven climate solutions which can enable polluters to keep polluting instead of transitioning off fossil fuels.
"At the heart of carbon markets is what is seen by many as the flawed notion that avoiding or reducing emissions in one place can make up for ongoing emissions elsewhere. Delaying the transition [away from fossil fuels] by purchasing pollution credits only serves to maintain business as usual and increase the likelihood of climate catastrophe," said Erika Lennon, senior attorney at the Center for International Environmental Law (Ciel)'s climate and energy program.
Recent investigations have found fundamental failings in forest offset projects but the problems, according to our research, appear to be more widespread in the industry.
All 10 hydroelectric dams in the top 50 carbon offsets - including the Teles Pires dam in the Brazilian Amazon and the Karcham Wangtoo plant in the Himalayas, India, which have both faced opposition from tribal communities - were classified as likely junk in our analysis as the climate benefits would have happened anyway, regardless of carbon credits. A number of previous studies have shown that although large dams cut national emissions, they do not lead to new or additional reductions needed for effective carbon credits. In some cases large dams have been associated with land disputes, displacement, increased poverty and environmental damage - including some greenhouse gas emissions emitted from water reservoirs.
In another example, a program in western Kenya provides water filters so households no longer need to boil water with firewood for filters. Though the potential health and sanitation benefits are not questioned, from an emissions perspective it was classified as likely junk in our analysis due to what appeared to be inflated baseline figures on how many households used firewood to heat water, and exaggerated claims in part due to evidence of low uptake of the filters.
Barbara Haya, director of the Berkeley Carbon Trading Project, which recently published a study that concluded that Verra's Redd+ forest schemes - like other major offset projects - exaggerate climate benefits, said: "The overall [new] findings align with the research on carbon credit quality which finds widespread over-crediting across many registries and offset project types including those with the most credits on the market - avoided deforestation and renewable energy."
In response, Verra said many of the issues highlighted in the report would be addressed in its forthcoming new methodology for generating carbon credits.
Back in 2021, the International Energy Agency (IEA) warned that there could be no further expansion of oil, gas and coal production if the world wanted to have any chance of avoiding catastrophic climate breakdown. The world failed to heed the warning, and emission cuts are wildly off track, according to the recent UN global stocktake, the most comprehensive analysis of global climate action produced to date.
"The climate breakdown has begun," said the UN secretary general, António Guterres, after the hottest atmosphere and ocean temperatures were recorded this summer. "Our climate is imploding faster than we can cope with extreme weather events hitting every corner of the planet."
Scientists have for decades been warning about the risks, yet instead of phasing out fossil fuels, vast amounts of time and resources have been invested into market-based carbon offset schemes and technologies that trade, cap and capture - rather than cut - greenhouse gas emissions.
Estimated to be worth about $2bn, the voluntary carbon market (VCM) is vast, fragmented and opaque, involving a complex network of developers, registries, traders, brokers and investors that makes it difficult to track and evaluate the effectiveness - and potential harms - linked to offset projects.
Despite the complexity, there is a strong public interest in calculating the benefits of offset projects given the deepening climate emergency and lack of meaningful progress in reducing fossil fuel production and global emissions.
Researchers from Corporate Accountability created a classification system to analyse the effectiveness of the top 50 offset projects, using raw data from AlliedOffsets.
Most of the top 50 were primarily promoted as emission avoidance or reduction projects but also included a handful of carbon removals schemes. Carbon credits for each project were certified and issued by one of seven registries; each project had been verified by a third party.
* The top 50 included three projects in the US, including a tree-planting project in the Mississippi Delta which a 2020 Bloomberg investigation found took "credit for trees that were already planted, or would have been planted anyway", and the oil company project in Wyoming which stores only a fraction of the carbon captured. Both were classified as likely junk due to evidence of multiple fundamental failings. American Carbon Registry (ACR), which certified both projects, rejected the findings and sources relied upon for our analysis. ACR said the tree planting project had enabled hundreds of private landowners to reforest over 130,000 acres of marginal and degraded sites in the Mississippi Delta.
* Forty-seven of the top 50 projects are in Latin America, Africa and Asia, predominantly in countries that have contributed the least to the climate crisis but are being battered by its effects. Five of the seven located in Brazil were classified by this investigation as fundamentally flawed and likely junk, while another is problematic and potentially junk. In neighbouring Peru, all four forestry projects in our top 50 have evidence of multiple failings making the carbon credits likely worthless, according to our analysis.
* The nine offset projects in India - five large hydroelectric dams, two solar plants and two wind farms - were all classified as likely or potentially junk, in part because none would lead to additional emission reductions.
* One or more fundamental flaws were found in 96% (22 out of 23) of the forest offset projects which are located in Brazil, Colombia, Uruguay, Indonesia, Ethiopia and Zimbabwe among other countries.
* Fifteen of the 16 renewable energy projects, which include dams, solar and wind, are likely junk - mostly because the project would have almost certainly happened anyway. While renewable energy is essential for the energy transition, these carbon credit projects do not appear to be leading to the claimed additional climate benefits and should not be used by polluters to offset emissions.
"These findings show that the VCM is flawed and basically a fraud, allowing the west to offset their emissions and continue business as usual at the expense of the global south," said Souparna Lahiri, the New Delhi-based climate adviser for the Global Forest Coalition.
"The carbon market and the rich west, for the last 25 years has actually done nothing to mitigate the climate crisis, rather, protected their high-emitting industry, production, consumption and lifestyle. It's a story of continuing and widening inequity and climate injustice," said Lahiri.
Almost two-thirds (32/50) of the most traded projects were certified by the US-based non-profit Verra, which operates the world's most prominent carbon standard or registry, and included 18 forest offsetting projects known as Redd+ schemes.
Twenty-eight of the 32 Verra projects the Guardian/Corporate Accountability analysed were classified as likely junk; the other four were problematic and potentially worthless. Verra has faced mounting criticism for its methodology and lax safeguards including a Guardian investigation that found that its forest carbon offsets are mostly junk and could make global heating worse.
Verra disputes the criticism of its forest projects. "There is compelling evidence proving the effectiveness of Redd+ projects," said a Verra spokesperson who pointed to recent research papers including a 2022 study of 40 Redd+ projects that found deforestation and degradation declined in the first five years of implementation.
Verra did not comment on the specific findings of this investigation, but in a statement said: "Verra's role is to ensure that projects satisfy its program rules, such that they can be registered and receive issuance of credits. Project proponents are free to hold, sell or retire those credits thereafter at their discretion ... Verra is happy to engage with data, reconsider assumptions and consider future improvements based on sound feedback and expert input."
Our analysis found similar issues with offset projects from other certifiers.
From the clean development mechanism (CDM), a UN-led program and first international carbon trading scheme, five of the eight offset projects were classified as likely junk - including the Teles Pires hydropower dam in Brazil which has reportedly damaged Indigenous and traditional communities, harmed biodiversity and fisheries, and is also probably emitting significant carbon emissions.
The CDM was established as part of the Kyoto protocol that allows countries to support emissions-reductions projects in other nations while counting them toward their own international climate commitments, and follows a "comprehensive set of criteria for selecting its projects", a UN framework convention on climate change (UNFCCC) spokesperson said. Despite its goals, the CDM has faced numerous criticisms for exaggerated claims, and lack of community safeguards. One study found that most of its certified renewable energy projects did not provide real, measurable and additional emission reductions.
The spokesperson added: "The supervisory body is currently working on the creation of a new mechanism [certifier], striving to make it being highest possible integrity to overcome any weaknesses pointed out in the past."
The UNFCCC did not respond to growing concerns that the sustainable development mechanism (SDM), which is replacing the CDM, has already come under fire by civil society groups across the world for promoting activities that do not lead to emissions reductions and risking harm to local communities and ecosystems, among other things.
The Karcham Wangtoo hydroelectric plant in Himachal Pradesh, India. Experts say large dams do not lead to additional emission cuts. Photograph: Rupendra Rawat/Alamy
In another case, two out of four of the projects on the Swiss-based Gold Standard Registry (GSR) - a water filter program in Kenya, and a cooking stove initiative in Ghana that promises to cut emissions and deforestation - were also classified as likely junk or worthless from a carbon credits perspective. The additional emission cuts claimed are unlikely due to exaggerated claims and inflated baselines, the analysis found.
GSR vehemently rejected the methodology of the research and disputed the basis for its findings, saying the company therefore could not comment on the conclusions about its projects. "We pay close attention to new academic research and best practices and update our methodologies to ensure they take account of the leading science," said Jamie Ballantyne from GSR. "Despite this, it is inevitable that mistakes will be made - which is why we have a market-leading grievance process that allows anyone to submit a grievance against any project. What we can't do is demand changes to individual projects based upon inconsistent evidence every time any allegation is made."

Mary Grady, executive director of ACR, said: "Findings of an 'inflated baseline', 'exaggerated claims', and 'not additional' should be reconsidered." She said natural tree regeneration was accounted for and would not skew the baseline or benefit calculations; and that the project proponent was legally required to monitor the projects for at least 40 years.
In the past year, amid mounting critical evidence and bad publicity some corporations have said they are looking to create their own emission offset schemes - which experts warn could be even harder to track.
Carbon offsets continue to be promoted as a source of climate financing for the global south, and at the recent Africa Climate Summit, hundreds of millions of dollars were pledged to boost the continent's carbon credit production.
Barbara Haya, director of the Berkeley Carbon Trading Project, said: "It is clear that the most important climate mitigation approach is direct emissions reductions. Beyond that, the offset market has not been a reliable way to support climate mitigation."
#42
Nuclear energy ranks last on the list of climate technologies that big institutional investors want exposure to, according to a survey of climate conscious investors with $37tn under management.
Fewer than one in 10 investors were exploring new investments in nuclear technology in the survey of the Investor Group on Climate Change, whose 100 members include super funds and asset managers looking after the funds of 15 million Australians.
The survey found a rebound in confidence in Australia's climate policy but a growing appetite for clear timelines for the phase-out of coal, oil and gas.
The opposition, led by Peter Dutton, plans to propose locating nuclear power plants on the site of retiring coal power plants, claiming that this would save having to build new transmission infrastructure for renewables.
But the plan has been widely panned. The energy department has estimated it would cost $387bn to go nuclear, and Dutton faces opposition from his own state colleagues.
Australia's big private electricity generators have dismissed nuclear energy as a viable source of power for their customers for at least another decade, and likely more.

In the yearly survey by the Investor Group on Climate Change investors were asked which energy and climate solutions they believed had good long-term returns. Nuclear energy was ranked last of 14 possible responses, along with sustainable oceans.
"This is due to nuclear energy's very high cost, and the lack of maturity and deployment in next generation technologies," a policy brief on the survey said, citing the CSIRO's gencost report.
The five most popular options were: renewable energy (backed by 47% of respondents); nature solutions, including biodiversity or nature capital (34%); energy storage (32%); low carbon transport (32%); and industry/materials, including critical minerals (32%).
In 2021 about 70% of investors cited policy and regulatory uncertainty as a barrier to investing in climate solutions, a figure that dropped to 40% in the 2023 data released on Monday.
Asked to nominate the policies they wanted the government to prioritise, most investors (56%) called for sector-by-sector decarbonisation plans to keep global heating under the 1.5C threshold.
There was also majority support for improved carbon pricing through the safeguard mechanism (54%), funding support for new technology (53%), and phasing out fossil fuel subsidies (51%).
The policy brief said "emerging priorities" included mandatory climate-related disclosures, timelines for the phase-out of coal, oil and gas, and clear policies to build resilience and adapt to the physical damages of climate change.
Erwin Jackson, Investor Group on Climate Change's managing director of policy, said: "Investors have given the government a pretty good report card.
"They're also sending the message that credible, investible and durable policy frameworks put in place today will support strong investor and beneficiary returns into the future, enhance Australia's economic competitiveness, and help attract international capital.
"We must have a fair and fast transition to net zero emissions, but we must also adapt.
"Investors look forward to working with governments on initiatives that can incentivise and remove barriers for private sector investment in adaptation across the economy."
In the 2023 budget the Albanese government gave $2bn to help establish Australia's hydrogen industry and a further $1bn for households.
In February Anthony Albanese raised expectations of another major energy package in this year's budget, telling the Hunter Nexus dinner that Australia "must be prepared to think big" to help regions diversify their economies and achieve the energy transition.
Albanese said that "every nation needs to decarbonise and electrify" and this was "a race that Australia can win".
"No nation is better placed than Australia to achieve this transition here at home - and power it in the world," he said. "This is a task that traverses far more than energy policy, or industry policy.
"This is a whole-of-nation opportunity and it demands a whole-of-economy approach."
#43
Australia's main power grid faces the "real" possibility ageing coal-fired power plants will drop out before sufficient generation capacity and transmission lines are in place, the Australian Energy Market Operator has said.
The comments, contained in a draft report on Aemo's main blueprint for the national electricity market, come a day after New South Wales faced its first grid strains of the summer. Authorities called on consumers to reduce non-essential power use as temperatures hovered in the high-30s across much of Sydney.
Aemo's report, known as the integrated system plan, noted that 10 big coal-fired power plants had shut in the national electricity market since 2012. The remaining coal fleet may shut as much as three times faster than companies have flagged in their own public announcements.
Coal-fired power generation capacity. Photograph: Australian Energy Market Operator
Aemo said in the mostly likely scenario about 90% of the current 21 gigawatts of coal capacity would retire by 2034-35 and all by 2038. Even in its "progressive change" path, only 4GW of coal generation would remain in 2034-35.
The scale of the replacement capacity needed is huge. Solar and windfarms will need to triple by 2030 to 57GW and expand seven-fold by 2050 to 126GW.
To support the variable renewables, new storage, hydro- and gas-powered generation will need to increase four-fold to 74GW by 2050. Roof-top solar, already installed on a higher percentage of houses, will also need to expand four times by mid-century to 72W, Aemo said.
"While significant progress [in the transition off fossil fuels] is being made, challenges and risks are already being experienced," Aemo's report said. "Planned projects are not progressing as expected, due to approval processes, investment decision uncertainty, cost pressures, social licence issues, supply chain issues and workforce shortages."
Under two of the three main scenarios examined, the grid will also need an extra 10,000km of transmission by 2050. The report said if Australia pursues a policy of developing so-called green energy exports, such as hydrogen, more than twice the transmission construction will be needed.
The energy industry itself has been calling for an acceleration of new investments if Australia is to meet its 2030 decarbonisation goals - but also to ensure power supplies can meet demand. New investment decisions have been dwindling, despite the urgency, with some firms complaining of changing rules in states such as NSW.
The federal government's plan for a capacity investment scheme to provide minimum prices for as much as 32GW of new renewables and storage was aimed to accelerate new projects but has raised concerns by some private companies of excessive state involvement in the market.
The draft integrated system plan may be at odds with some firms' plans. Victoria, for instance, may have closed coal plants entirely by 2033, Aemo predicts, while AGL Energy says its Loy Yang A power station will shut by the end of the 2035 financial year.
"To identify the optimal development path to 2050, we used Australia's most comprehensive set of power system and market models to assess the benefits and risks of more than 1,000 potential pathways," Aemo's chief executive, Daniel Westerman, said.
"Delivering the transmission projects identified in this plan is expected to avoid $17bn in additional costs to consumers if those projects were not delivered," he said.
Separately, the NSW government on Friday released the design of a proposed new plan that aims to bolster energy reliability as coal-fired plants close.
If applied, the national orderly exit management framework would provide "a clear process for governments to manage situations where owners of a coal-fired power station seek to bring forward its retirement date", the government said. "If required, it also enables a government to temporarily extend the operation of the power station while new renewable infrastructure comes online, through a voluntary agreement or a direction," it said.
NSW's energy minister, Penny Sharpe, said the government was "committed to getting as much renewable energy into our grid as quickly as possible to meet our emissions reduction targets and provide a reliable supply of clean, affordable electricity".
"We don't want coal-fired power stations open a minute longer than needed," Sharpe said. "This framework provides a back-up for the energy transition, to be used only as a last resort where we don't have enough time to feasibly get new renewables or storage into the system."
#44
More than 100 heads of state and government are expected to land in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, over the next few days and the first thing they are likely to notice is the smell of oil. The odour hangs heavy in the air, evidence of the abundance of fossil fuels in this small country on the shores of the Caspian Sea.
Flaring from refineries lights up the night sky, and the city is dotted with diminutive "nodding donkey" oil wells raising and lowering their pistons as they draw from the earth. Even the national symbol is a gas flame, epitomised in the shape of three skyscrapers that tower over the city.
Azerbaijan has been built on oil since the mid-19th century, and fossil fuels now make up 90% of its exports. There could be no starker reminder of the core question that world leaders have come to Baku to decide: whether the planet will burn so that fossil fuel producers can continue to make money, or whether to take a different path.
That the world's biggest economy, the US, is about to shift away from the focus on clean energy fostered by Joe Biden towards the "drill, baby, drill" policies of Donald Trump will be a main topic of conversation for the tens of thousands of delegates at the Cop29 UN climate summit. However, many will point out that no country has ever produced as much oil and gas as the US does now, with 20% more oil and gas licences issued during the Biden administration than during Trump's first term.
Climate leaders reacted with defiance to the US election outcome. "The result from this election will be seen as a major blow to global climate action but it cannot and will not halt the changes under way to decarbonise the economy and meet the goals of the Paris agreement," declared Christiana Figueres, the former UN climate chief who is a co-founder of the Global Optimism thinktank.
Trump will not be at Cop29, a fortnight-long meeting that is the latest in a near annual series stretching back to 1992 when the UN framework convention on climate change - the parent treaty to the 2015 Paris climate agreement - was signed.
Those talks may appear to have achieved little, as greenhouse gas emissions are still rising and the losses from extreme weather - record hurricanes in the Atlantic, dramatic floods last week in Spain, drought in Africa that has threatened millions with famine - are becoming daily more apparent. Last year was the hottest on record and this year is likely to be hotter still.
Just 15 years ago, however, matters looked much worse. Renewable energy was then expensive and scarcely used, and the world was headed for 6C of global heating above preindustrial temperatures, a level that would barely support human life. Today, after years of talks - during which fossil fuel interests have repeatedly spread disinformation, blocked agreement, captured politicians and choked investment in renewables - we are heading for "only" 3C.
Global heating on that scale would still be devastating, scientists have made clear. So countries meeting at Cop29 from Monday will reaffirm their commitments to limiting temperature rises to 1.5C, which will require reaching net zero emissions in the next two decades. Scientists say there is still a chance of avoiding the worst ravages of climate breakdown if the world acts now.
"The reality remains that unless the world collectively steps up its efforts, the impacts of climate change will become increasingly severe and frequent and will be felt by an increasing number of people in all countries, including in the US," said Kaveh Guilanpour, a vice-president for international strategies at the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, a US thinktank. "The reality is that there is no prosperous or safe high-carbon future for anyone."
The prospects of a strong outcome from the Baku summit may appear dim, with the far right and anti-net zero voices on the rise in the US, Europe and elsewhere. But there is hope that Cop29 will address at least one of the major issues preventing action: money. Shifting to clean energy makes economic as well as scientific sense, but the incumbency of fossil fuels is so strong that massive investment will be needed to shift the world on to that lower-carbon, lower-waste, more productive and healthier path.
How much? About $3.5tn a year between now and 2050 to transform energy systems, according to the Energy Transitions Commission thinktank. The UN, through its climate champions network, estimates $125tn in total by 2050, or about $5tn a year, for the whole global economy. A McKinsey report two years ago put the total at $9tn a year, but that analysis has been debunked for using too-high cost estimates and ignoring existing investments.
Where to get that money from? Most of it is already there. Trillions of dollars sounds like a lot but the world already spends $3tn a year on energy, according to the International Energy Agency, and more than that on other industries in the fossil fuel-based economy. If investment was geared away from high-carbon infrastructure and towards cleaner alternatives, the sums could easily be met.
For developed countries, all that is needed to achieve the switch is strong governance that directs investment away from dirty infrastructure and into low-carbon technologies. That is tricky enough - witness the election of Trump on a clear anti-net zero ticket. But for the developing world the problem looks much harder. Poor countries already face high barriers to gaining the investment they need to lift people out of poverty, develop industries and fund basic services.
For instance, Africa has the most abundant resources of solar power and wind energy. But data from the International Energy Agency last year showed there were more solar panels in Belgium than in the whole of the African continent. Setting up solar and wind farms in Africa is far more costly than in rich countries, despite the lower physical and labour costs, because investors charge far more to lend capital and demand higher repayments.
At the same time, the impacts of climate breakdown are wreaking havoc on poor economies, frequently wiping out any development gains. Tinaye Mabara, a Botswana-based activist from Zimbabwe, said people were suffering the consequences. "Southern Africa, where I'm from, is in the bottom tier of African regions that receive climate finance, so I want to see drastic climate finance reforms taken at this Cop to ensure that local adaptation efforts actually receive the necessary funding, because they are the ones on the ground doing the work."
Daniel Lund, a senior adviser to the Fijian government, said developing countries urgently needed help, with a greater quantity of climate finance and also through better systems to make it easier to access. "Addressing the complex impacts of climate change through existing fragmented and volatile climate financing arrangements can feel like fighting a raging fire with dozens of tiny fire extinguishers," he said. "None of the tools currently available are sufficient for the scale of the problem."
That is why money will be the core focus of Cop29. Under the Paris agreement, countries must agree a "new collective quantified goal" (NCQG) for climate finance, to flow from the rich to the poor, to help developing countries cut their greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to the impacts of the climate crisis.
This is something that has never been tried before in three decades of talks. Until now, the only climate finance target has been a promise made in 2009, at Cop15 in Copenhagen, for $100bn a year to flow to the developing world by 2020. That target was only achieved two years late - a delay that damaged the faith of developing countries, according to Alok Sharma, the president of Cop26 in Glasgow and now a member of the UK's House of Lords. "Not reaching the previous $100bn goal on time sapped the confidence and trust of developing nations, and that's why any future finance goal has to meet the deliverability test," he said.
No Cop has ever discussed a finance goal before, let alone any tested of its rationale. The $100bn figure was "plucked out of the air", said Rachel Kyte, the UK's new climate envoy, speaking before her appointment to the role. The offer was made - largely at the instigation of the then US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton - based on political calculations of what developed country governments thought their electorates would stand for.
At Cop29, more rigorous systems are in place. Two years ago the economists Nicholas Stern and Vera Songwe led an in-depth analysis of climate finance needs. They came up with a number: $2.4tn a year was needed for developing countries, excluding China, to cut their greenhouse gas emissions and protect themselves against climate breakdown.
Of that sum, about half could come from countries' existing budgets and domestic private investment sources, the economists estimated. That would leave roughly $1tn to come from the developed world, a large chunk of which Lord Stern believes could come from reforming the World Bank and its fellow institutions, to enable them to lend more, and on easier terms, to climate-related efforts.
Most analysts and developed country governments agree on these estimates. Most developing countries broadly accept them, a stance reflected in the proposals for the NCQG that they have submitted to the UN this year. For example, India submitted a demand for $1tn a year, and the Alliance of Small Island States is targeting a similar number, while the Africa group wants $1.3tn.
But these figures are a statement of need. Few believe all of this money could come from the exchequers of developed countries without risking a backlash. Joe Thwaites, of the NRDC thinktank in the US, said: "There is a keen awareness of the fragility of the political consensus on this."
For the Azerbaijan presidency, it was clear from early in the talks that reconciling these two approaches - one based on need, the other on what developed countries are prepared to stump up - means including at least two key numbers in the NCQG. What has emerged from pre-Cop talks in recent months is a "layered approach". These layers have led some participants to call it an onion, others a camembert (because the sources of cash will be divided up into wedges), while a few prefer comparisons to a pie or a sandwich.
Culinary metaphors aside, the core concept is fairly simple: the NCQG will include the needs expressed by developing countries; an agreed goal for finance coming from existing developed countries plus an expanded contributor base; and ideas for how to fill the gap between the two.
No developed countries are yet prepared to be specific about how much the "quantum" of contributions should be, and the goal will be a collective one, so individual countries will not need to submit their own targets. The Guardian understands that overall sums in the region of $400bn to $600bn by 2035 are being discussed. Much if not most of that funding is likely to come not directly from developed world taxpayers but through multilateral development banks such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which will require sweeping reform before they are capable of meeting the challenge.
In order to agree to such sums, rich countries are also demanding a redrawing of donor terms to expand the list of contributors. The global economy has changed drastically since 1992 when the UNFCCC was signed, which divided the world starkly into developed countries with obligations to cut emissions and provide finance, and developing countries that carried no such obligations. China is now the biggest economy and biggest emitter but has no obligation to offer climate finance, and other middle-income countries such as South Korea and Singapore are also booming. Petrostates such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates are classed as developing, despite their vast oil wealth.
China will not agree to have its developing country status changed and insists that it already provides de facto climate finance in the form of loans to poorer countries. There may be a compromise available in counting some of these forms of finance, on a voluntary basis, towards an expanded donor base. The UAE and Azerbaijan have also made gestures, pledging relatively small quantities. Saudi Arabia, however, is firmly set against being tapped as a donor.
To bridge the gap of hundreds of billions of dollars a year, countries are pinning their hopes on what are being termed "innovative sources of finance". These include potential taxes on high-carbon activities, such as oil and gas extraction; wealth taxes, such as the billionaire tax proposed by Brazil; levies on frequent flyers and on global shipping; proceeds from the sales of carbon credits; and redirecting harmful subsidies to fossil fuels and agriculture towards more sustainable options.
The US under Biden was lukewarm on some of these ideas - the Treasury secretary, Janet Yellen, said a firm no to any wealth tax, for instance - but was at least a participant. Under Trump, the US may try to stymie any prospect of global levies.
Yet the impact of a Trump government on the NCQG is likely to be smaller than feared. The US provided just $1.5bn in climate finance in 2021, $5.8bn in 2022 and $9.5bn in 2023. These sums are paltry compared with the US's historical responsibilities as a carbon emitter, according to activists. The EU is a bigger provider of climate finance than the US.
Alden Meyer, of the climate change thinktank E3G, said: "The US contribution has not been what it should have been, under any government. There will be some impact but not that much."
Answering the money question would be a huge boost to climate action, and to climate justice for the world's poorest and most vulnerable people. But it will not be enough to make Cop29 a success. Current plans from national governments to cut greenhouse gas emissions - called nationally determined contributions (NDCs) - are inadequate and urgently need to be strengthened.
Under the Paris agreement, the next round of NDCs are due in February, before the Cop30 conference to be held in Brazil next November. Some countries will file theirs early - the UK has promised to announce its plans at Cop29 - and Brazil wants to use the summit in Baku to ensure countries come up with NDCs that are strong, detailed and contain targets commensurate to the task of reaching net zero by mid-century.
Harjeet Singh, the global engagement director for the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative, said: "For communities facing the harshest impacts of climate change, the stakes have never been higher. Developing countries should amplify diplomatic and economic pressure, underscoring global interdependence and holding wealthier nations accountable for their historical emissions and responsibilities."
Owing to Trump's victory, these efforts may seem futile. Simon Lewis, a professor of global change science at University College London, spoke for many scientists in saying: "We can say goodbye to the Paris agreement goal of limiting warming to 1.5C above preindustrial levels. Increasingly deadly climate impacts will escalate. It's as simple as that."
Activists and governments are not ready to give up yet. Abandoning the 1.5C target would give too much ground to those - including Saudi Arabia and its allies - who already argue for a retreat to the much easier 2C limit that was also set down in the 2015 Paris agreement. Yet scientists have warned that a rise of 2C would be disastrous, for small islands in particular, bringing more droughts and more floods, and would risk triggering calamitous tipping points - such as the collapse of the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation that brings warm weather to northern Europe.
Rather than do that, Brazil - backed by developed countries including the UK, the EU, and developing countries including members of the Alliance of Small Island States - will keep the focus on 1.5C and push all countries - even the US - to come up with NDCs that could achieve it.
Oscar Soria, the director of the Common Initiative thinktank, said: "The difference between 1.5C and 2C could mean the difference between manageable and unmanageable conditions for many vulnerable populations. While the challenge is daunting, abandoning the 1.5C target would be a collective suicide. We cannot and should not do that."
One final fight at Baku will be over the future of the world's energy systems. At the previous climate summit, Cop28 in Dubai last year, countries made a historic commitment to "transition away" from fossil fuels - incredibly, thanks to the strength of the fossil fuel lobby, the first time in 30 years of talks this resolution has been made. According to high-level participants in the talks, already in pre-Cop meetings some oil-producing countries, including Saudi Arabia, have tried to unpick it. They will try harder now, emboldened by the prospect of at least four years of US climate backsliding.
Simon Stiell, the UN climate chief, who this summer spoke movingly of the impacts of climate breakdown from the ruins of his grandmother's house in Carriacou, destroyed by Hurricane Beryl, promised to protect the progress that had been made. "Ambitious outcomes in Baku remain vital, because unless all countries can cut emissions and build more resilience into global supply chains, no economy - including the G20 - will survive unchecked global heating, and no household will be spared its severe inflationary impacts."
#45
Aformer fracking site in the North Yorkshire village of Kirby Misperton, once a lightning rod for environmental protests, may soon be a new frontier in Britain's clean energy revolution. For the first time in the UK, an abandoned gas well could begin a second life as a source of geothermal energy.
It is a far cry from its beginnings as a highly contested site where frackers hoped to tap fresh reservoirs of gas trapped in layers of shale beneath the earth's surface. In 2016, Third Energy was granted permission to carry out fracking at an existing well but its plans were ultimately thwarted by a government moratorium on using the technology in the UK.
The transformation is being led by CeraPhi Energy, made up of a team of former oil and gas veterans who plan to use their expertise in drilling for fossil fuels to harness the potential for renewable energy lying dormant beneath the earth's surface.
After 30 years in the fossil fuel sector, Karl Farrow founded the company in 2020, in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. The plan, he said, was to bring together people with deep expertise in the oil and gas industry to unlock a new source of clean energy.
"The first thing we did when we got the keys to the gates was to invite the leaders of the local anti-fracking groups around to see what we were planning for the site," he said. "I think many of them see this project as a kind of closure. We're doing something positive here. So all their work in trying to prevent fracking is now likely to lead to clean energy as a result."
For the company it was a "natural transition" to reuse their existing drilling expertise and infrastructure to tap the renewable energy below. Drilling for fossil fuels and drilling for geothermal is "virtually identical", Farrow said. "The only difference is that you're effectively extracting a renewable energy source rather than a fossil fuel."
Typically, harnessing geothermal energy involves drilling a borehole to depths of about two to three miles, to flow cold water at low pressures through the hot rocks beneath the Earth's surface. Then, a second borehole returns the warm water to the surface where it can be used to heat homes and businesses or generate electricity.
Unlike fracking there is very little environmental risk. The well is sealed and the water lines operate in a closed loop system meaning there is no exposure to the subsurface. "Think of pushing a test tube into some sand. It creates a completely sealed environment," Farrow said.
The Kirby Misperton project is at its final testing phase: so far the results have proven Farrow's theories and engineering calculations. In some cases he says they were better than expected. His team had anticipated temperatures of 90 degrees Celsius at the base of the wells, but instead recorded temperatures of 110 degrees. Farrow hopes to share the findings with the community, local authorities and government bodies to make the case for Britain's geothermal potential.
"In the next few months we will hopefully start developing the site and wells into real projects," he said. Ultimately, Farrow expects the heat captured from geothermal wells to be used in local heat networks used to warm blocks of flats, schools, hospitals, office parks or leisure centres.
"I think it's the only direct competitor in respect of gas heating," Farrow said. "I think it could honestly make up 15-20% of the energy mix for heat going forward, if not more." To date, major oil companies have treated geothermal as "a bit of a science project" but Farrow believes the world is now moving towards a "geothermal decade".
CeraPhi has nine potential geothermal projects in the UK, but Farrow says the burgeoning industry still needs a push for government to accelerate the pace at which it can play a role in decarbonising heating.
The UK's early steps into geothermal energy include a project in Seaham, County Durham, which will use water from mineshafts to heat 1,500 new homes, and a scheme at the Eden Project in Cornwall, which generates heat to warm Eden's indoor rainforest and Mediterranean biomes as well as offices, kitchens and greenhouses.
Geothermal energy offers a potential source of clean heating - but also a serendipitous economic boost for many of the areas that the government has found are in the greatest need of new investment as part of its levelling up plan.
Research by the University of Durham has found these include Redcar and Cleveland, Middlesbrough, East Lindsey, Hartlepool, Northumberland and Bassetlaw, which all appear in the top 10 of the index used by government to identify local authority areas in need of levelling up. Other areas well-suited to producing geothermal heat and electricity include Newcastle upon Tyne, North East Derbyshire, the East Riding of Yorkshire and Nottingham.
In theory, the UK has enough geothermal energy trapped underground to heat every home for a hundred years. Even by conservative estimates that account for realistic commercial and logistical limits, geothermal energy could help the UK to cut its imports of fossil fuels and rely only on the North Sea for its gas.
"Geothermal still has a very low profile," he said. "It needs to come out of the shadows into the light."
#46
Britain's only remaining coal power plant at Ratcliffe-on-Soar in Nottinghamshire will generate electricity for the last time on Monday after powering the UK for 57 years.
The power plant will come to the end of its life in line with the government's world-leading policy to phase out coal power which was first signalled almost a decade ago.
The closure marks the end of Britain's 142-year history of coal power use which began when the world's first coal-fired power station, the Holborn Viaduct power station, began generating electricity in 1882.
The shutdown has been hailed by green campaigners as a major achievement for the government in reducing the UK's carbon emissions, providing international climate leadership, and ensuring a "just transition" for staff in Britain's coal industry.
Michael Shanks, the minister for energy, said: "Today's closure at Ratcliffe marks the end of an era and coal workers can be rightly proud of their work powering our country for over 140 years. We owe generations a debt of gratitude as a country."
The UK became the first country to set an end date for coal power from 2025 after putting in place increasingly stringent green regulations to reduce the running hours of its coal plants.
Ministers strengthened the UK's leadership on phasing out coal by calling for the deadline to come forward by a year, shortly before the UK hosted the UN's Cop26 climate talks in Glasgow in late 2021.
Ratcliffe's 170 remaining staff will be invited to gather in the canteen on Monday where a live stream from the power plant's control room will show the moment that its generating units are turned off for the last time.
Peter O'Grady, Ratcliffe's plant manager, said: "This whole year has been a series of poignant moments. I'm sure there will be a few tears as the whole thing stops and as people leave."
The coal plant once employed 3,000 engineers but its workforce has declined in line with its power output over recent years. Coal power made up 80% of the UK's electricity in the early 1980s, and 40% in 2012, before petering out in the last decade due to costly carbon taxes and the rise of cheaper renewables.
"This is the final chapter of a remarkably swift transition from the country that started the industrial revolution," said Phil MacDonald, managing director of global energy thinktank Ember.
A report by Ember found that coal power has halved among Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries since reaching a peak in 2007. Coal power made up 17% of electricity generated by OECD countries last year, according to Ember, but 27 of the 38 member states have pledged to be coal-free by the end of the decade.
Ed Matthew, a director at climate crisis thinktank E3G, said: "The UK was the first country to build a coal-fired power station. It is right that it is the first major economy to exit coal power. This is true global leadership, lighting the path for other countries to follow."
Tony Bosworth, a campaigner with Friends of the Earth, said: "The priority now is to move away from gas as well, by developing as fast as possible the UK's huge homegrown renewable energy potential and delivering the economic boost that will bring. But this vital green transition must be fair, by protecting workers and benefiting communities."
Staff were first told in 2021 that the plant would close in late 2022 but Ratcliffe's owner, the German energy company Uniper, later said it would keep the plant running during the Europe-wide gas crisis triggered by Russia's invasion of Ukraine under an agreement with the government.
Uniper has worked with unions to help many engineers into new jobs at the company's other power plants or into training which could lead to work in other areas of the energy industry. More than 100 are expected to remain at the plant to carry out decommissioning work over the next two years.
Michael Lewis, Uniper's chief executive, said: "For me, Ratcliffe has always been more than just a power station - it has been a pillar of the UK's energy security for decades. Built during a time when coal was the backbone of industrial progress, Ratcliffe powered over 2m homes and businesses - equivalent to the entire East Midlands region. It played a crucial role in boosting economic growth and supporting the livelihoods of thousands of people.
"This will be the first time since 1882 that coal has not powered Great Britain. As we close this chapter, we honour Ratcliffe's legacy and the people working here, while embracing the future of cleaner and flexible energy," he said.
 This article was amended on 30 September 2024 to include the Drax power station in the map, and to remove a graph showing the different types of fuel used in electricity generation in the UK from 1920 onwards.
#47
The US continues to be a force for good in tackling the climate crisis, despite its soaring fossil fuel production, the John Kerry has insisted.
The outgoing US climate chief acknowledged, however, that strong safeguards were needed to dismantle oil and gas infrastructure before the switch to renewables could become permanent, as he prepared to leave his post as special presidential envoy.
"I don't agree that we are a force for ill," he told the Guardian in an interview at the US embassy in London to mark his departure from government. "We are living up to our obligations to transition ... we are in transition, and as our renewables come online they [fossil fuels] are going out at a very rapid rate."
The US, the world's largest economy, is also the largest oil and gas producer, as fracking and exploration have burgeoned in response to rising fossil fuel prices. The US president, Joe Biden, called a pause on export permits in January, but experts say this will not be enough to halt the rapid expansion that the bonanza has engendered.
Kerry said gas producers must be subject to strict rules but that high production was needed in the near term to make the shift globally from coal to a low-carbon economy. Meanwhile, the US could slash its greenhouse gas emissions and lead the world on clean technology, he added.
"Yes, we're the largest [oil and gas] producer in the world," he said. "But the gas transition, getting gas to replace oil and coal, has been a critical reducer of emissions. Now can it finish the job and get us to net zero? Not unless you're capturing all the emissions."
As a result of the rapid construction of renewable energy capacity, driven by the Inflation Reduction Act - "the most forward-leading, most comprehensive piece of climate legislation anywhere in the world", he said, the US was on track to meet its goal of more than halving emissions by 2030, compared with 2005 levels. "The US is not blindly going out and doing two things at the same time that are in opposition [by pursuing oil and gas and climate goals]," he added.
Oil and gas production had been bolstered in response to the Russian president Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine, he said.
"Don't measure us by what's happened in the last year, in terms of the continued gas thing, because the gas piece is a reaction to Ukraine, to what Russia did by cutting off power and the lack of gas availability to Europe," he said. "We've been able to sustain economies, even as those economies are buying into the climate transition."
But Kerry also sounded the alarm over the future of gas. "I'm very concerned about the infrastructure that is being built," he said. "I think we have to have a solemn commitment [to phase out the infrastructure, potentially well before the end of its life]. I raised this with every gas producer that I happen to be in conversation with. We cannot build out 30- and 40-year infrastructure that is going to wind up being stranded assets when this transition takes place."
Those commitments would require new regulation, he said. "We have to create the incentives and structures and regulations in the marketplace. They are going to move us to accomplish those goals [of completing the shift to net zero]. And if they don't, then there will be without question repercussions in terms of what's happening on regulation."
Gas businesses should make plans now, he warned. "Our preference is obviously that companies will act responsibly, and not necessitate that. But we're in that test right now."
Kerry held the door open to companies capturing the greenhouse gas emissions that result from burning their fossil fuels. But he was sceptical over whether it could provide the whole answer to the decarbonisation problem.
"If they can't capture them, that's going to be a problem," he said. "And there are people with very serious doubts as to whether or not they can capture it at scale and make it work."
Kerry was appointed special presidential envoy for climate by Biden as soon as he took office, in January 2021. Previously, he was secretary of state - the equivalent of foreign minister in the US government - in the second presidential term of Barack Obama, from 2013-17. In that role, he helped to negotiate and signed the Paris climate agreement of 2015.
One of his central achievements in those roles was to forge a close relationship with China, the world's biggest emitter and second biggest economy, over climate issues. In November, in the run-up to the Cop28 UN climate summit in Dubai, he and his Chinese counterpart, Xie Zhenhua, published a cooperation agreement, resolving to work together on cutting methane emissions and finding new ways to cut carbon.
His warm relationship with Xie has been a mainstay of UN climate summits for years. In the final press conference of Cop28, after the final outcome was reached, the two men took the stage together to pay tribute to each other. It felt like a farewell appearance, and in January news broke of first Xie and then Kerry planning to step down.
Kerry said China must break its reliance on coal. "There's 500GW of new coal-fired power in pipeline in Asia alone, 360GW in China and 160GW in the rest of the south Asian countries, that could wipe out the gains made by Europe, the EU, US and Canada and other countries. So that is the great task ahead of us, accelerating this transition to keep in lockstep with the science."
The official announcement of Kerry's departure is expected within days. He will not retire entirely from the global stage, as he plans to keep pushing businesses to take stronger action on the climate.
John Podesta, a White House adviser and formerly chair of Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign and a senior adviser to Obama, will take on the role of senior adviser to the president on international climate policy.

As the US prepares for what is likely to be a bitter presidential election this year, the climate crisis is expected to be a flashpoint. Though he would not single out any by name, Kerry has warned strongly against the "demagoguery" and "disinformation", and outright lies in some cases, that are being pushed by some politicians.
The key question for climate policy is the last-ditch global effort to restrain temperature rises to 1.5C above preindustrial levels. "We've got to do what we've got to do to keep that [1.5C limit] alive," Kerry said. "Enough scientists now say we may already have gone through 1.5C, so that's the urgency there. That's the imperative that drives us."
Is 1.5C already a hopeless effort? Kerry is "worried" about the target but wants to keep it as the central goal. "I'm not ready to say we can't do it, if we do the right things that we know we need to do."
#48
Fewer than one in three voters believe Australia is on track to meet the Albanese government's target of net zero emissions by 2050, according to the Guardian Essential poll.
The latest poll of 1,149 voters also found that half of Australians support nuclear energy. Although renewables remain popular, their local impact and transmission infrastructure are a concern.
The findings help explain Peter Dutton's political strategy to talk up the potential of nuclear power and criticise the transition to renewable energy as unfeasible or harmful to local communities.
The opposition leader and the Coalition are yet to provide any detail about how they would support the nuclear industry, beyond removing Australia's prohibition on nuclear power and experts agree the power source would take decades to get up and running.
The Guardian Essential poll, released on Tuesday, found 55% of respondents agree that human pollution and activity were the "main reasons for global warming", compared with just 22% who disagreed.
The poll found 38% of voters say Australia is not doing enough to combat climate change, the lowest proportion in seven years coming off highs of 62% who said the same in January 2020 at the height of black summer bushfires.
Some 36% said Australia is doing enough to combat climate change, while 17% said it is doing too much. A further 9% said they didn't know.
Respondents were sceptical about reaching net zero by 2050: 7% said this was "very likely" and 24% agreed it was "quite likely" - a combined total of only 31%. That compared with 38% who said it was "not that likely" and 19% who responded that it was "not likely at all". A further 11% were unsure.
Majorities said Australia was not doing enough to preserve endangered species (53%), oceans and rivers (52%), and native forests (52%). They were more pleased with the pace of the transition to renewables, with 45% saying Australia is doing enough and 40% calling for more action.
Support for most renewable infrastructure was high, with majorities backing solar farms (69%), offshore wind (60%), onshore wind (59%) and community batteries (56%). But overground transmission was supported by just 35% of respondents.
Presented with a series of propositions about the transition, 70% said development of renewables should not "come at the expense of local communities".
Two-thirds (66%) said Australia needs to make the most of its resources and weather conditions to address climate change. Three-fifths (60%) said Australia needs to rapidly develop renewables because they are cheaper and will create new jobs.
Just over a quarter (26%) said Australia does not need to transition to renewables.
Asked about Australia building nuclear power plants to generate electricity, 23% are strongly in favour, with a further 27% somewhat in favour.
The same proportion (50%) backed nuclear in September 2021, although the proportion of those strongly in favour has increased by three points since then. One in three voters (33%) oppose nuclear power today.
Renewables appear to have a bad rap when it comes to price, with 38% of respondents ranking them the "most expensive" of three options, followed by 34% who ranked nuclear the most expensive and 28% who said fossil fuels.
The climate change and energy minister, Chris Bowen, has repeatedly rebuffed Dutton's nuclear push, citing cost - including an estimate from the energy department that replacing fossil fuels with nuclear could cost $387bn.
Earlier in October Bowen accused the Coalition of using "the rightwing playbook of 2023 - populism, polarisation and post-truth politics" in making false claims about the potential for nuclear power in Australia.

Asked what the most important drivers of power prices were, respondents blamed: excessive profits by energy companies (28%), efforts to fight climate change including the shift to renewable energy (19%), the ageing electricity network (16%), international circumstances such as the war in Ukraine (13%) and restrictions on oil and gas (11%). A further 13% were unsure.
The Essential poll found 50% of voters had not that much, hardly any or no trust in government to lead the energy transition, compared with 42% who said they had a lot or a fair amount.
A separate Australian National University poll, also released on Tuesday, found 77.4% of Australians are satisfied or very satisfied with democracy, compared with 81% in 2008.
The poll, released ahead of the ANU's Crawford leadership forum, recorded a big decrease in Australians being "very satisfied" with democracy, down from 23.4% 15 years ago to 14.2% today.
#49
Australia's big private electricity generators have dismissed nuclear energy as a viable source of power for their customers for at least a decade.
They say they will remain focused on developing renewable sources as coal and gas plants exit the grid.
The comments - from AGL Energy, Alinta, EnergyAustralia and Origin Energy - follow an announcement by the opposition leader, Peter Dutton, that the Coalition would back both large-scale and small modular nuclear reactors (SMR) as a way to cut electricity prices and increase grid reliability.
Energy Australia, whose Hong Kong-listed owner CLP currently operates two large nuclear power stations in mainland China, said the company was "committed to Australia's clean energy transformation, reducing emissions as quickly and affordably as possible while maintaining system reliability".
"We know that Australia will need some form of controllable long-duration, zero-carbon storage or generation to deliver net zero by 2050," an EA spokesperson said, adding that green hydrogen or nuclear had potential to play a role.
"Given long lead times for development, [nuclear is] a potential option for the late 2030s or 2040s."
Alinta said it had not been approached by the Coalition and nuclear energy was "not something we're exploring".
"To be a viable option, the regulatory environment would need to be amended and many other considerations would need to be assessed," the Alinta spokesperson said.
Damien Nicks, AGL's chief, said nuclear energy was not a part of the company's plans to develop coal and gas plants into low-emissions industrial hubs.
"There is no viable schedule for the regulation or development of nuclear energy in Australia and the cost, build time and public opinion are all prohibitive," Nicks said on Friday. "Policy certainty is important for companies like AGL and ongoing debate on the matter runs the risk of unnecessarily complicating the long-term investment decisions necessary for the energy transition."
An Origin spokesperson said the company was focused on accelerating the take-up of renewables and storage, including the construction of big batteries at its Eraring coal-fired power plant in New South Wales and at its Mortlake gas-fired plant in Victoria.
"At this stage, our primary focus is adding more supply from these mature low-emissions technologies, however we will continue to watch progress with any emerging technologies that may be able to contribute to emissions reduction over time," the spokesperson said.
Australia's electricity prices have jumped in recent years, including a hike in the default market offer in 2022 that the Morrison government delayed until after the election that year - lumping Labor with the increase.
The slow rollout of wind and solar farms, however, has stoked concerns the electricity sector won't have sufficient capacity to meet demand as ageing coal plants shut.
While companies stress they remain "energy agnostic", the challenges of introducing a new energy source requiring complex regulations, particularly for the storage and disposal of nuclear energy waste, are steep, they say. They point to the absence of commercially proven SMRs and cost blowouts of large-scale plants such as the UK's Hinkley Point C, which has been touted as the world's "most expensive" power station.
Guardian Australia sought comment from Ted O'Brien, the opposition's energy spokesperson. "If you're not serious about nuclear, you're not serious about net zero," O'Brien said last December. "We're open to all technologies from renewables to carbon, capture and storage, zero-emissions nuclear energy, and so much more."
One senior executive told Guardian Australia power bills would triple if the nuclear path was pursued.
NSW's chief scientist, Hugh Durrant-Whyte, dismissed the comparisons by nuclear energy advocates of places such as Ontario, Canada. That country had spent decades building a nuclear industry employing 70,000 people.
"Nobody in this country has even the faintest idea how to build a nuclear power plant," Durrant-Whyte, a former nuclear adviser to the UK government, told NSW upper house estimates earlier this month.
#50
Agreements between Sámi reindeer herders and commercial developers in Sweden are having an overall detrimental impact on such Indigenous communities, research has found.
According to the analysis, the first of its kind into such agreements, renewable energy companies - promoted as part of the Nordic country's "green transition" - are among the worst offenders.
It comes amid a huge push in northern Sweden across wind power, mineral extraction, hydropower and a more aggressive approach to forestry, in order to meet its national and EU climate goals. But this has led to accusations of infringement of Sámi rights.
While several agreements have led to some positive incomes - contributing to reducing harm to reindeer and resulting in financial compensation - researchers concluded in the study, published in the journal Society and Natural Resources, that "the harmful outcomes generally outweigh the limited gains".
This, they said, was particularly apparent in the "high-risk" agreements that have been adopted by wind power companies, which they found contained "a combination of open consent, gag clauses and confidentiality".
The study's lead author, Rasmus Kløcker Larsen, a senior research fellow at the Stockholm Environment Institute, said these kinds of agreements were a growing trend between Sámi reindeer herding communities and commercial developers. He attributed the rise largely to failures of state regulation to avoid conflicts created by green transition policies.
"Put simply, developers seek to curb Sámi resistance and avoid protracted court proceedings through obtaining a negotiated consent from herding communities in private contracts," he said of the study, which looked at 15 of the agreements.
"However, virtually nothing is known about the content of these agreements and the factors that shape outcomes - a knowledge deficit that undermines our ability to judge the potential role that agreements could play in resolving conflicts and increasing legitimacy and societal acceptance of green transition projects in the European north."
The green transition has had an impact across Sámi society, said Kløcker Larsen, particularly on land-based traditions such as fishing and hunting.
Among reindeer herding communities, green industry has led to land dispossession, obstruction of reindeer migration routes, pasture degradation and fragmentation and loss of reindeer. It has also increased workload, injuries and costs for Sámi communities, financial losses, psycho-social stress, destruction of cultural heritage and made it harder for young people to continue the communities' traditional livelihood.
"A growing number of successful court rulings wherein the Sámi have convincingly argued about these impacts and risks have significantly delayed or stopped planned industry projects," he added. "This is likely one key reason for the interest of developers to negotiate agreements with herding communities."
#51
Azerbaijan, the host of the Cop29 global climate summit, will see a large expansion of fossil gas production in the next decade, a new report has revealed. The authors said that the crucial negotiations should not be overseen by "those with a vested interest in keeping the world hooked on fossil fuels".
Azerbaijan's state-owned oil and gas company, Socar, and its partners are set to raise the country's annual gas production from 37bn cubic metres (bcm) today to 49bcm by 2033. Socar also recently agreed to increase gas exports to the European Union by 17% by 2026.
The Cop29 summit, starting on 11 November, comes as scientists say that continued record carbon dioxide emissions means "the future of humanity hangs in the balance". The International Energy Agency said in 2021 that no new fossil fuel exploitation should take place if CO2 emissions were to fall to zero by 2050.
But in 2023 Socar pushed 97% of its capital expenditure into oil and gas projects, the report found. The company launched a "green energy division" a few weeks after Azerbaijan was appointed as Cop29 host, promising investments in wind, solar and carbon capture technologies. But according to the report, Socar's renewable operations remain insignificant.
Azerbaijan's climate action plan was rated "critically insufficient" by Climate Action Tracker (CAT) in September. "Azerbaijan is among a tiny group of countries that has weakened its climate target [and] the country is doubling down on fossil fuel extraction," said the CAT analysts.
Azerbaijan and Socar had also been accused of human rights violations, the report said. The authors said defeating the climate crisis required civil society to have freedom of speech and protected human rights.
"Given Socar's pivotal role in Azerbaijan's economy and its close ties to the country's political elite, its influence will surely be felt throughout the climate negotiations in Baku," said Regine Richter at the German NGO Urgewald, lead author of the report. "As we prepare for Cop29, we cannot but ask ourselves: did we put the fox in charge of the henhouse?"
Azerbaijan's president, Ilham Aliyev, told a climate conference in April: "Having oil and gas deposits is not our fault. It's a gift from God." Aliyez appoints Socar's management board and was vice-president of Socar until he succeeded his father as the country's president in 2003. Azerbaijan's ecology and natural resources minister, Mukhtar Babayev, will run Cop29. He previously worked for Socar for 26 years until 2018. Rovshan Najaf, the president of Socar, is part of the Cop29 organising committee.
A Cop29 spokesperson, responding in relation to Azerbaijan's gas production and energy transition, said: "Azerbaijan is investing in gas capacity in response to a European request to increase supplies following the disruption of supplies from Russia. This is in line with the [UN's] global stocktake, which agreed on the need to ensure that the energy transition is just and orderly." The global stocktake concluded the world was not on track to stop global heating and that "urgent and deep greenhouse gas emissions reductions" were needed.
The Cop29 spokesperson added: "Azerbaijan is intensively developing its abundant solar and wind resources as part of its commitment to becoming a leading supplier of green energy." Neither Socar nor Azerbaijan's foreign affairs ministry responded to the Guardian's requests for comment.
The new report, produced by Urgewald and CEE Bankwatch, found Azerbaijan was set to increase its gas production by a third in the next decade, with fossil fuel companies forecast to spend $41.4bn (£31.9bn) on the country's gas fields. Socar alone spent almost $300m on exploration for new oil and gas between 2022 and 2024, according to the report.
The analysis is based on data from Rystad Energy, the industry's leading provider. It includes current gas production, new resources approved for development, and other known resources. Burning of the expected gas production would produce about 780m tonnes of CO2, more than double the annual emissions of the UK. Rather than discovering more reserves, scientists concluded in 2021 that most existing gas reserves needed to remain in the ground to limit global heating to 1.5C.
Socar works with some of the world's biggest fossil fuel companies, including BP, TotalEnergies, the Russian oil giant Tatneft and the United Arab Emirates' state oil company Adnoc. The CEO of Adnoc, Sultan Al Jaber, was president of Cop28 in Dubai, where nations failed to agree to "phase out" fossil fuels, as many wanted, instead choosing the weaker ambition of "transitioning away from fossil fuels".
Socar also receives substantial financial backing from major international institutions, totalling $6.8bn in loans and underwriting between 2021 and 2023, according to research by the Banking on Climate Chaos coalition.
Azerbaijan's economy is heavily dependent on fossil fuel income, which makes up 90% of export revenues and 60% of state revenues, according to the IEA. Azerbaijan's gas production was similar to that of the UK in 2022. Its oil production has declined since 2010.
"It is crucial that those who host the [Cop29] negotiations are true climate leaders, not those with a vested interest in keeping the world hooked on fossil fuels," the report said.
The report also highlighted accusations of human rights abuses and corruption in Azerbaijan. The European court of human rights found the country had violated the European convention on human rights 263 times since 2001, including three instances of torture and 30 cases of inhuman and degrading treatment.
Freedom House ranks Azerbaijan among the least free countries in the world in relation to political rights, independent media and civil liberties, below Russia and Belarus. Transparency International rated Azerbaijan as the second-worst nation for public sector corruption in eastern Europe and central Asia in 2022.
Socar has also been accused of human rights violations by the Azerbaijan-based Organization for the Protection of Oil Workers' Rights, which has cited health and safety violations and environmental pollution.
Manana Kochladze at CEE Bankwatch said: "Where other governments partner with civil society to tackle the climate crisis, the Aliyev regime systematically threatens environmental and human rights defenders. This does not inspire confidence in the upcoming negotiations in Baku."
#52
British households are making more green energy upgrades than ever before after installing a record number of solar panels and heat pumps in the first half of the year, according to the industry's official standards body.
The industry figures show there were more green energy installations in June than in previous years.
On average, more than 17,000 households installed solar panels every month this year, while the number of homes installing heat pumps reached 3,000 a month for the first time, according to the data.
Each month of 2023 was a record month for battery technologies, as installation figures consistently surpassed the month before, bringing the total number of batteries installed in homes and businesses across the UK to more than 1,000 in 2023 so far.
The industry's accreditation body, MCS, said the green energy boom has put households on track to install more renewable energy than the last record set in 2012, when many raced to install solar panels before government subsidies were reduced.
Ian Rippin, the chief executive of MCS, said: "As the cost of energy continues to grow, we are seeing more people turn to renewable technology to generate their own energy and heat at home."
Small-scale renewable energy installations at homes and businesses across the UK now have a total capacity of 4 gigawatts (GW), greater than the nuclear power plant under construction at Hinkley Point and almost double the capacity of Europe's biggest gas power plant near Pembroke in Wales.
"We need to continue to push this expansion to meet our shared national ambitions to reach net zero by 2050. More consumers have the confidence to invest in small-scale renewables now than ever, but we have to make that transition even easier," Rippin said.
The UK government has set targets to reach 70GW of solar capacity by 2035 and to install 600,000 heat pumps a year by 2028. But the uptake of heat pumps has fallen far short of the government's aim, despite £5,000 grants to reduce the cost of replacing an old gas boiler.
In total there were 17,920 heat pump installations in the first six months of 2023, according to MCS data, meaning that if the same pace continued over the second half of the year, heat pump installations would reach just 6% of the government's target.
Bean Beanland, the director of external affairs at the Heat Pump Federation, said there was "a tremendous job of work to do" to ensure that heat pump technology becomes mainstream over the remainder of this decade.
The accreditation body believes that one of the biggest barriers to the government's heat pump ambitions is the need to recruit enough qualified, skilled installers to meet the demand for trustworthy advice and installations.
There are 1,500 heat pump installation companies certified in the UK, but an estimated 50,000 workers will be needed to meet government targets. So far this year, more than 850 new contractors have become MCS certified, more than the number who signed up during the whole of 2022.
Beanland added: "It is essential that the lowest-carbon heat becomes the lowest-cost heat, so that homeowners and landlords can justify the transition away from polluting fossil fuels. If this is coupled to a genuine affordability and future funding package, then households will be able to contribute to climate change mitigation with confidence and at a cost that is fair to all."
#53
Pope Francis has said the rich world must make profound changes to tackle the climate crisis, while defending climate protesters and urging governments to make the forthcoming Cop28 climate summit a turning point.
He called for "a decisive acceleration of energy transition" from fossil fuels to renewables, but cautioned against relying on new technology such as carbon capture and storage, which he said was "like pushing a snowball down a hill".
Without decisive action, the world would face "the point of no return", he said. "Our responses have not been adequate, while the world in which we live is collapsing and may be nearing the breaking point."
The pope's comments came in a "papal exhortation" published by the Vatican on Wednesday morning, a call primarily to Catholics but intended for the world. Called Laudate Deum, which translates as Praise God, the 10-page document is his first big intervention on the climate crisis for eight years.
His previous encyclical, Laudato Si, was published in 2015, shortly before the landmark Cop21 climate summit at which the Paris agreement was signed. The pope has taken a keen interest in the climate, convening oil companies and activists, and warning of a "climate emergency", though he missed the 2021 Cop26 summit in Glasgow, which he had been expected to attend.

He called for "a broad change in the irresponsible lifestyle connected with the western model", but noted that he had faced opposition for his views. "[I have been] obliged to make these clarifications, which may appear obvious, because of certain dismissive and scarcely reasonable opinions that I encounter, even within the Catholic church."
He defended "the actions of groups negatively portrayed as 'radicalised' ... in reality, they are filling a space left empty by society as a whole, which ought to exercise a healthy 'pressure', since every family ought to realise that the future of their children is at stake."
Dutch police detain a climate protester in The Hague. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Getty
The pontiff expressed hope that the Cop28 summit, to be held in Dubai this November and December, would "move beyond the mentality of appearing to be concerned but not having the courage needed to produce substantial changes".
He also pointed to the key role of the hosts of Cop28, noting that the United Arab Emirates was a big oil producer.
He said the country was "known as a great exporter of fossil fuels, although it has made significant investments in renewable energy sources. Meanwhile, gas and oil companies are planning new projects there, with the aim of further increasing their production.
"To say that there is nothing to hope for would be suicidal, for it would mean exposing all humanity, especially the poorest, to the worst impacts of climate change.
"We can keep hoping that Cop28 will allow for a decisive acceleration of energy transition. This conference can represent a change of direction, showing that everything done since 1992 was in fact serious and worth the effort, or else it will be a great disappointment and jeopardise whatever good has been achieved so far."
He stopped short of calling for the phase-out of all fossil fuels, as some countries are doing, but called for an expansion of renewable energy. He praised technologies that could help to reduce emissions but cautioned against over-reliance on technical fixes.
"Some interventions and technological advances that make it possible to absorb or capture gas emissions have proved promising," he wrote. "Nonetheless, we risk remaining trapped in the mindset of pasting and papering over cracks, while beneath the surface there is a continuing deterioration to which we continue to contribute.
"To suppose that all problems in the future will be able to be solved by new technical interventions is a form of homicidal pragmatism, like pushing a snowball downhill."
Campaigners welcomed the pope's intervention. Bill McKibben, the climate campaigner and co-founder of 350.org and Third Act, said: "The work of spiritual leaders around the world may be our best chance of getting hold of things. Yes, the engineers have done their job. Yes, the scientists have done their job. But it's high time for the human heart to do its job. That's what we need this leadership for."
Christiana Figueres, the former UN climate chief who led the Paris agreement process, said: "I warmly welcome the Holy Father's new exhortation. He reminds us to use the three human languages he has identified for us - head, heart and hands - to protect nature and to protect the most vulnerable of our societies."
Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, said: "Laudate Deum comes at a moment of unique challenge for the whole of humanity. As in the Old Testament, God lays before us a choice and says: 'Choose life.' Laudate Deum chooses life."
Christine Allen, director at the Catholic aid agency Cafod, said: "Instead of making hundreds of trips in private jets, politicians in wealthy countries must lead the way: facing up to our historic responsibility as a major polluter, and providing more financial and technical support for communities to respond to the effects of climate change."
The pope chose to publish the exhortation on the feast day of St Francis of Assisi, whose name he chose for his papacy, which will have resonance for Catholics because St Francis was known for his care for the natural world and the simplicity of his lifestyle.
His exhortation concluded: "'Praise God' is the title of this letter. For when human beings claim to take God's place, they become their own worst enemies."
#54

The G20 poured record levels of public money into fossil fuels last year despite having promised to reduce some of it, a report has found.
The amount of public money flowing into coal, oil and gas in 20 of the world's biggest economies reached a record $1.4tn(£1.1tn) in 2022, according to the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) thinktank, even though world leaders agreed to phase out "inefficient" fossil fuel subsidies at the Cop26 climate summit in Glasgow two years ago.
The report comes ahead of a meeting of G20 countries in Delhi next month that could set the tone for the next big climate conference, which takes place in the United Arab Emirates in November.
It is crucial that leaders put fossil fuel subsidies on the agenda, said Tara Laan, a senior associate with the IISD and lead author of the study. "These figures are a stark reminder of the massive amounts of public money G20 governments continue to pour into fossil fuels - despite the increasingly devastating impacts of climate change."
Fossil fuels release pollutants when burned that heat the planet and make extreme weather more violent. They also dirty the air with toxins that damage people's lungs and other organs. Scientists estimate the air pollution from fossil fuels kills between 1 and 10 million people each year.
But beyond the overlooked costs to society, governments have lowered prices further by supporting fossil fuel producers and their customers with public money. The report found G20 governments last year provided fossil fuels $1tn in subsidies, $322bn in investments by state-owned enterprises and $50bn in loans from public finance institutions.
The total amount was more than double what they had provided in 2019, the authors found.
G20 leaders agreed to phase out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies "over the medium term" as far back as 2009. At the Cop26 climate summit a decade later, world leaders agreed to accelerate these efforts.
But since then, living costs have risen sharply as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The latter sparked an energy crisis that prompted many governments to intervene in the costs of fuel and cap energy bills.
Scientists and doctors have long warned of the dangers of subsidising fuels that kill people while also blocking efforts to clean up economies. More recently, energy experts and economists have joined the chorus of voices calling fossil fuel subsidies into question.
In February, a report from the International Energy Agency found the scale of fossil fuel subsidies in 2022 was a "worrying sign for energy transitions", though it argued some of the measures could be defended as social or political necessities "given the hardship that full exposure to market-driven prices could have caused".
In June, a report from the World Bank found that "by underpricing fossil fuels, governments not only incentivise overuse, but also perpetuate inefficient polluting technologies and entrench inequality".
The authors also found that of all subsidies to the energy sector, about three-quarters go to fossil fuels.
"There is huge potential in subsidy reform," said Richard Damania, chief economist of a sustainability group at the World Bank and lead author of the study. "By repurposing wasteful subsidies, we can free up significant sums that could instead be used to address some of the planet's most pressing challenges."
He added: "Governments should prioritise reforms that build public acceptance, protect the most vulnerable, and show how the money is being spent to meaningfully improve people's lives."
The IISD found that by setting a higher carbon tax of $25-75 per ton of greenhouse gases, G20 governments could raise an extra $1tn a year.
To offset the costs to vulnerable people living in poverty, the authors recommended targeted welfare payments to those who need it most. They also recommended world leaders drop the qualifier "inefficient" from their promise to phase out fossil fuel subsidies, and instead name exceptional cases where they would be justified.
The IISD also called on G20 leaders to end fossil fuel subsidies in rich countries by 2025 and in the rest by 2030.
"With fossil fuel companies gaining record profits amid the energy crisis last year, there is little incentive for them to change their business models in line with what's needed to limit global warming," said Laan. "But governments have the power to push them in the right direction."
#55
Australia's coal and gas exports cause more climate damage than those from any other country bar Russia, according to a new study that argues the country is undermining a global agreement to transition away from fossil fuels.
The analysis, commissioned by the University of New South Wales' Australian Human Rights Institute, found Australia was the third biggest fossil fuel exporter on an energy basis in 2021, trailing only Russia and the US.
Australia ranked second on an emission basis. It overtook the US due to a majority of Australia's exports being coal, a particularly emissions-intensive fuel.
It meant that while Australia releases about only 1% of global emissions at home, it was linked to about 4.5% once its exports were counted.
The report, by non-profit science and policy organisation Climate Analytics, said based on government forecasts, Australia's fossil fuel exports were expected to remain at roughly the current level until at least 2035 as it continued to approve new coal and gas export developments.
Climate Analytics' chief executive, Bill Hare, said this was incompatible with a range of international commitments Australia had made, including a call backed by nearly 200 countries at the Cop28 climate summit in Dubai in December for the world to transition away from fossil fuels, "accelerating action this decade".
"Yet here we have the Australian government intent on a deliberate strategy that will see its gas exports soar, exporting billions of tonnes of emissions, inconsistent with achieving net zero, and completely inconsistent with the science of this issue," he said.
Dr Gillian Moon, the project lead of the Australian Human Rights Institute's climate accountability project, said it was striking that emissions from Australia's fossil fuels exports had been about 30bn of CO2 over the 63 years since 1961 and this was forecast to increase by 50% between now and 2035.
She said the country was continuing on this path despite being more vulnerable to the effects of the climate crisis than most other countries. "We have domestic [emissions reduction] targets, but nothing on our exports. We export 91% of our coal and about three-quarters of gas, and we have no plan to get off this trade," she said. "The Australian public deserve to know the truth about this and the consequences for us."
Moon said if Australia was serious about its climate commitments, it should be doing more to encourage countries that bought its fossil fuels - particularly the developed economies Japan, South Korea and Taiwan that take about two-thirds of its exports - to move more rapidly to renewable energy. She said it should be having similar discussions with like-minded fossil fuel exporters, such as Canada and Norway.
She said it was striking that there was no discussion about fossil fuel production at global climate conferences held at the end of each year. "We have to have a conversation about how we're going to deal with this," she said.
The analysis found if the global community were to live up to the headline goal of the landmark Paris climate agreement - that countries would try to limit global heating to 1.5C - emissions from fossil fuels would need to be reduced by 64% by 2035.
The Australian resources minister, Madeleine King, last month announced the government would award nine permits to six companies - four to Esso and one each to Beach Energy, Woodside, Chevron, Inpex and Melbana - to explore for new gas reserves off the country's west and south-eastern coasts.
Data published by the Guardian this week found the Australian proposals were part of a surge of new oil and gas exploration by wealthy democracies - including the US, UK and Canada - that threatened to unleash nearly 12bn tonnes of planet-heating emissions and undermine national and global climate commitments.
A recent report by the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, a thinktank, challenged suggestions that Japan needed Australian gas to maintain its energy supply. It said demand for gas in the Asian country had fallen 25% over the past decade and the country was selling more LNG overseas than it bought from Australia.
#56
Queensland's Liberal National party has backed one of the most ambitious emission reduction targets in Australia - much to the disappointment of some of their federal counterparts.
While the federal opposition is still yet to unveil mid-term climate targets as part of its net zero by 2050 promise, the Nationals leader, David Littleproud, has decisively ruled out joining his state counterparts in their ambitious pledge.
The shadow environment minister, Sam O'Connor, told state parliament on Wednesday the LNP would not oppose the government's bill to legislate the emissions reduction target of 75% by 2035.
The bill - which is expected to pass this week - will set a 2030 target of 30% below 2005 levels and 75% by 2035. It will then require the minister to set a series of interim targets every five years after 2035 until net zero 2050, a decade in advance.
"I recognise the threat of climate change to our environment," O'Connor said.
"We must do all we can to become more sustainable so Queenslanders for many generations to come can continue to enjoy the unrivalled natural beauty our state is defined by.
"Reducing our emissions by 75% to 2035 is ambitious but it is achievable."
The federal government is due to set a national 2035 target by early next year, Victoria has a 2035 emissions reduction target of 75-80%, New South Wales of 70% and Western Australia has no target as emissions continue to rise.
A second bill, which was debated in cognate, seeks to legislate a renewables target of 80% by 2035.
LNP MP Deb Frecklington said the party supported the renewable energy target but did not agree with legislating it.
"The legislation shackles Queenslanders to blindly higher bills and unreliable supply, handcuffing the state to the decision instead of allowing us to be guided by the aspects that actually impact Queenslanders," she said.
"The legislation forces Queensland down this river without building the boat first."
The issue of achieving net zero emission by 2050 is fraught within the federal Coalition with the debate threatening to destabilise the former Morrison government in 2021.
The opposition are again under to pressure to develop an energy policy ahead of the federal election that offers a clear pathway to net zero with a mid-term target while reckoning with internal political disagreements about whether to keep a net zero by 2050 promise.
Littleproud said the plan, which is yet to be released, would include a mix of nuclear, gas and renewables and would keep coal-fired power stations humming until an "orderly" and affordable transition could be achieved.
The timing of that transition and what mid-term target is agreed on are still being worked on but the Maranoa MP ruled out it being anywhere near what Queensland state Labor and LNP are supporting.
"There's no way in the world we would be looking at 75% by 2035. I cannot see, in any way shape or form, the federal Nationals could support the Queensland LNP in their support of this," he said.
Some Queensland politicians in the federal Coalition were at odds with their state party colleagues on the climate target.
Queensland Nationals senator Matt Canavan said "these increasingly absurd promises are like an unfit person who says every day I will start dieting tomorrow."
Federal Coalition MP Keith Pitt dubbed the Queensland target "unaffordable" and "unachievable".
Australia's minister for climate change, Chris Bowen, said the Queensland LNP's support of the targets was out of step with the federal Coalition's stance.
It shows how out of touch with the mainstream Dutton's deniers have become, when their Queensland counterparts are so vocally backing a plan for reliable renewables as the way of the future."
Meanwhile, the Queensland Greens flagged they would move amendments to increase emissions reduction targets and set a target of 100% publicly owned energy.
"The Greens are calling for a moratorium on new coal and gas, net zero by 2035, and 100% public ownership of our electricity system," Greens MP Michael Berkman said.
"Labor has copied some of the Greens' homework, but they're still falling short of an A."
The energy minister, Mick de Brenni, said the bills show the Labor government is "tackling the climate emergency by cutting emissions whilst at the same time delivering sustained economic growth."
"This groundbreaking reform is for our children who hope for a better and cleaner future," he said.
"We must transform our electricity system to deliver clean, reliable and affordable power to secure our economy for today and tomorrow."
#57
The United Arab Emirates has become the largest backer of new business projects in Africa, raising hopes of a rush of much-needed money for green energy, but also concerns that the investments could compromise the rights of workers and environmental protections.
Between 2019 and 2023, Emirati companies announced $110bn (£88bn) of projects, $72bn of them in renewable energy, according to FT Locations, a data company owned by the Financial Times.
The pledges were more than double the value of those made by companies from the UK, France or China, which pulled back from big-ticket infrastructure investment projects in Africa after many failed to deliver expected returns. African leaders were also disappointed with climate finance pledges by western governments. At the Cop29 climate conference, for example, wealthy countries promised $300bn annually, whereas developing countries had demanded $1.3 tn.
Although African leaders have welcomed the increased interest from the Emiratis, some activists and analysts have expressed fears that the UAE's poor record on labour rights for migrant workers, continued support for hydrocarbons and failure to address environmental issues will characterise its investments in Africa.
"African countries are in dire need of this money [for] their own energy transitions. And they plug huge holes, the Emirati investors, that the west failed to," said Ahmed Aboudouh, an associate fellow at the Chatham House thinktank. "But at the same time they come in with less attention to labour rights, to environmental standards."
The UAE has long been a political player in north Africa and the Horn of Africa, where it has been accused of fuelling conflicts in Libya and Sudan. Now, its leadership is trying to diversify its economy away from oil and gas, including to green energy and "critical minerals" such as copper that are needed for electric cars and batteries.
Dubai's port and airline companies were early movers to Africa. Dubai's Emirates airline has flights to 20 African countries. DP World, controlled by Dubai's royal family, has been present in the region since 2006. It manages six ports, with plans to build two more. Abu Dhabi Ports has managed Kamsar port in Guinea since 2013, and recently won concessions in Egypt, the Republic of Congo and Angola.
"Angola is, at the moment, the only country where both DP World and Abu Dhabi Ports have a presence," said Maddalena Procopio, a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. She said the UAE was not shifting away from east Africa. "This has to do with a growing interest from the UAE in expanding connectivity towards the Americas, in particular Latin America."
UAE companies also have investments in agriculture and telecoms. Since 2022, the Dubai royal Sheikh Ahmed Dalmook al-Maktoum has struck deals to sell carbon credits from forests covering a fifth of Zimbabwe, 10% of Liberia, 10% of Zambia and 8% of Tanzania.
Emirati investments have also shaken up the mining industry. International Resource Holdings, part of a conglomerate controlled by the Abu Dhabi national security adviser Sheikh Tahnoon bin Zayed, paid $1.1bn to Zambia's state mining company, ZCCM, for a 51% stake in Mopani Copper Mines.
The deal was a surprise to most observers. ZCCM took over the debt-laden mine from Glencore in 2021 and had been searching for a new investor. Throughout 2023, the shortlist was widely reported to be down to two companies: China's Zijin Mining and South Africa's Sibanye Stillwater.
That was until IRH was unveiled as the preferred bidder. The company of Sheikh Tahnoon - often labelled the second most-powerful Emirati after Abu Dhabi's ruler, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, - had no track record. But Zambian officials and advisers said IRH had hired world-class mining expertise and that its pledge to invest in the mine while preserving jobs made it the best choice.
Many Emirati announcements may never fully materialise or are at an early stage. For example, the 2023 announcement of a $34bn "green hydrogen" project in Mauritania was a Memorandum of Understanding, not a contract.
Some pledges have hit hurdles. In January 2023, the renewable energy company Masdar announced $2bn for 2GW of solar power in Zambia. However, financial problems at the state-owned energy company ZESCO have delayed the investments, said Jito Kayumba, a special assistant to Zambia's president.
Meanwhile, the amount of illegally smuggled gold to Dubai from Africa has grown, according to researchers. The NGO Swissaid found a difference of 2,569 tonnes between official exports from African countries to the emirate and its imports from Africa from 2012 to 2022, worth $115.3bn.
"African countries need all the financing and trade they can get," said Ken Opalo, an associate professor at Georgetown University. "However, there is also the opportunity for the attention to breed criminality - like we are seeing in the gold sector."
#58
A Conservative former cabinet minister who took donations from the billionaire boss of the JCB digger dynasty - including a £7,000 trip on his VIP private helicopter - oversaw decisions to award his family's business empire millions in taxpayer-funded green energy grants.
Claire Coutinho also posed for pictures promoting Lord Bamford's personal £100m hydrogen engine project and accepted a £7,500 donation from JCB to her local election campaign while she was the energy secretary in Rishi Sunak's government.
The revelations raise questions about possible conflicts of interest for the East Surrey MP - who is now serving as shadow secretary for energy security and net zero - and shed light on a wider pattern of donations from the JCB empire, which has given £300,000 to the Conservatives in 2024 alone.
While the Tories were in office, Coutinho's Department for Energy Security and Net Zero was responsible for allocating funding from the Net Zero Hydrogen Fund and other funding pots intended to boost green energy initiatives.
The family of Lord Bamford, a longtime leading donor to the Conservatives and a friend of former prime minister Boris Johnson, has invested heavily in hydrogen and lobbied for government spending on infrastructure projects.
The Observer's investigation has established that Coutinho met personally with Bamford and organisations linked to him before and after key funding decisions that benefited his family's business empire.
In September 2023, a consortium led by Ryze Hydrogen, a company owned by Bamford's son Jo - heir to the family fortune and a director of JCB's holding company - won £3.2m from Coutinho's department to provide hydrogen refuelling to construction sites. JCB has a business relationship with Ryze, jointly signing a multibillion pound deal with an Australian mining company to supply green hydrogen to the UK.
Two months later in November 2023, Coutinho met with the Centre for Policy Studies, a free-market thinktank of which Bamford is a director, to "discuss the future of energy security". Coutinho declared the meeting but did not say who it was with.
In December 2023, a project by Hygen, another company owned by Jo Bamford, was one of 11 granted a slice of £90m in government grants from the Net Zero Hydrogen Fund.
And in February 2024, a Bamford-linked project, including Ryze and Hygen, was granted a share of £21m funding to build a "network of hydrogen production and refuelling stations" in Suffolk.
Soon after, in May 2024, Coutinho travelled to JCB's headquarters in Staffordshire for a meeting to discuss Bamford's £100m project on hydrogen combustion engines. During that trip she "met JCB chairman Anthony Bamford who is personally spearheading JCB's hydrogen developments", and posed for photos in a JCB hard hat and hi-vis vest.
The meeting was publicised by JCB on social media and in a press release, republished by media outlets with the headline: "Energy secretary inspired by JCB's hydrogen engine innovation". The press release also included an endorsement from Coutinho. "It was terrific to visit JCB to see their pioneering hydrogen combustion engines powering a new generation of diggers," she said. "Countries around the world are queuing up to work with brilliant UK businesses, like JCB .... It is incredibly inspiring to see the levels of innovation, dedication, and enthusiasm throughout JCB."
The following month, on 25 June, J C Bamford Excavators gave £7,500 to Coutinho's Conservative association to help with her re-election campaign.
The relationship has continued since the Tories lost power. In the latest register of interests, Coutinho declared that she and a member of staff took helicopter flights to Staffordshire and back, worth £7,182, on 19 September for a meeting at JCB's headquarters.
Whether Coutinho met Bamford personally on that trip is unclear because her declaration said only that it was for a meeting with JCB
According to flight logs from a global tracking service, the helicopter flew from London and was a Sikorsky S-76, which is popular among state leaders and VIPs.
There is no suggestion that the grants to Bamford family companies were awarded improperly or that correct processes were not followed.
But transparency campaigners said the pattern of meetings, donations and funding decisions created the impression of a "cosy relationship" that raised ethical concerns.
Rose Whiffen, senior research officer at Transparency International UK, said the findings raised "serious questions about the potential influence of outside individuals over policy".
"When decision-makers repeatedly accept meetings, hospitality and contributions from the same donor, it gives rise to a perception that a cosy relationship exists," she said.
"Ministers and shadow ministers should always be cautious when accepting gifts and hospitality from outside interests - even more so when the source of these donations has a direct interest in their ministerial brief."
Tom Holen, programme manager for energy transition at InfluenceMap, which tracks climate lobbying, said current UK rules allowed "concerted corporate engagement with politicians to happen under the radar".
The Green party's deputy leader, Zack Polanski, said: "The generosity of big business donors to political parties always comes with an unacceptable price tag around perceptions of buying influence."
Coutinho was also criticised over her choice in September to travel by "climate-damaging" helicopter, given her ministerial brief covers cutting carbon emissions.
With the JCB helicopter thought to burn almost 480 litres (about 105 gallons) of fuel an hour, her £7,182 return trip could have pumped out an estimated two tonnes of CO2. Had she gone by train, it would have cost about £90, taken approximately two hours each way - plus a 10-minute car journey - and caused a fraction of the pollution. Carys Boughton, a campaigner at Fossil Free Parliament, said the helicopter trip was the "toxic cherry on the cake" and described the donations as a "particularly obvious conflict of interest".
She added: "As the former energy secretary and now shadow secretary of state for climate change and net zero, Coutinho should not be allowed to take gifts and donations from companies that are pushing for the approval of energy projects that she has prospective influence over." .
The donations to Coutinho are part of a wider pattern of the Bamford family lavishing cash on the Conservative party. Data from the Electoral Commission shows that Bamford, his relatives and companies in his family's business empire have given at least £10.2m to the Conservatives since 2001.
They include personal payments from Bamford and Jo Bamford to Conservative central party and local campaigns, as well as at least £2.9m from JC Bamford Excavators in the last five years alone.
JCB has previously paid for MPs to travel on its helicopters and private plane, including funding a helicopter trip for Tory backbencher Jacob Rees-Mogg in April 2024. Rees-Mogg, who lost his seat at the general election in July, briefly served as energy secretary in Liz Truss's government in 2022.
Bamford also has close links to ex-prime minister Johnson, reportedly letting him stay at his properties in Knightsbridge and the Cotswolds and giving him £23,853 to pay for food and flowers at his wedding party.
The Bamfords are one of the wealthiest families in Britain, with an estimated worth of £7.65bn, according to the 2024 Sunday Times rich list. Last year, JCB paid a £300m dividend to Bamford and his family after pre-tax profits rose by 44%.
Companies owned by the Bamfords made recent appearances at both the Conservative and Labour conferences. The family are among the most vocal advocates for adopting hydrogen in the UK and have called on the government to invest in infrastructure as well as hydrogen-fuelled forms of transport such as buses, trains, ships and aircraft.
Environmental campaigners have raised concerns about the promotion of hydrogen for tackling the climate crisis, particularly in sectors such as heating and transport, because it can compete with more efficient technologies, including heat pumps and electric vehicles. Some fear promises of "green" hydrogen, made using renewable energy, are part of a "bait-and-switch" strategy by the fossil fuel industry to secure the future of the nonrenewable form of the fuel, which is made from natural gas.
Before Coutinho was appointed energy secretary, the Conservative government gave its backing to other projects linked to the Bamford family, including funding for Wrightbus, a division of the Bamford Bus Company, which made the world's first hydrogen-driven double-decker, and a special authorisation for JCB's hydrogen-powered digger to be tested on UK roads.
JCB and the Conservative party declined to comment on the donations, meetings and government funding. Coutinho's office did not respond to emails or calls.
JCB has previously said its hydrogen engines are "super-efficient" and a vital solution for hard-to-decarbonise sectors such as construction. In an article last year, Bamford said JCB's commitment to reducing emissions "goes back almost 25 years".
Hygen said it delivers hydrogen projects to "drive net zero", while Ryze said it supplies "clean" hydrogen and infrastructure to "accelerate the energy transition".
#59
The risk of winter blackouts in Great Britain has tumbled to its lowest in four years even after the shutdown of the UK's last coal plant, thanks to investments in low-carbon electricity sources.
The National Energy System Operator (Neso) expects Britain's winter power supplies to outstrip demand by almost 9% this year in its base case scenario, the greatest margin since the winter of 2019 to 2020.
The company responsible for keeping the lights on, which was bought by the government from National Grid at the start of this month, said the power supply margin for this winter was higher because Great Britain has more battery storage projects, small-scale renewables and imported electricity.
The UK is expected to rely on record levels of imported electricity this winter, the first since the world's longest high-voltage power cable began importing enough clean electricity from Denmark to power 2.5m British homes.
The Viking power link, which can also export British electricity to Denmark, is a vital part of the UK's strategy to wean itself off fossil fuel power by creating a flexible, low-carbon electricity grid.
These steps towards Britain's legally binding 2050 climate targets are expected to more than offset the impact of retiring power plants, including the closure of the UK's last coal-fired power plant at Ratcliffe-on-Soar, which was called on to supply 2.3% of the UK's electricity during a cold snap in January.
During the Europe-wide gas crisis caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine in early 2022, Britain kept its old coal plants on standby to keep the lights on if it was short of gas to run its power plants.
However, for the winter ahead concerns have been eased by the abundant gas stores across the EU, which are 95% full. In addition, Britain expects to import gas from Norway's pipelines and via tanker from the US or Qatar through the winter months to meet the demand of power plants, factories and homes.
The conflict is not considered a threat to the UK's gas supplies, according to Neso.
Craig Dyke, a director at the publicly owned company, said: "While our margin assessment has improved from previous winters, we are continuing to monitor risks and uncertainties and, if necessary, will take steps to build resilience."
Neso said it was working with the government, the energy regulator and National Gas, which runs the gas system in Great Britain, to assess any emerging risks to the stability of supplies.
The system operator expects to use its demand flexibility service that will result in businesses and consumers paying to reduce their energy usage at peak times. About 2.6m households and businesses received payments to help reduce the pressure on the National Grid last winter.
"We and the rest of the energy industry will as always continue to prepare for a range of potential eventualities, so that we are fully prepared for this coming winter," Dyke said.
#60
The UK risks becoming a dumping ground for the products of forced labour from Xinjiang province in China if it rejects reforms proposed by members of the foreign affairs select committee with cross-party support, ministers have been warned.
An amendment to the energy bill, due to be debated on Tuesday, would require solar energy companies to prove that their supply chains are free of slave labour. The Xinjiang region is the source of 35%-40% of the world's solar-grade polysilicon, the key raw material in the solar photovoltaic supply chain.
The amendment to the energy bill has been tabled by Alicia Kearns, the chair of the foreign affairs select committee, seven other members of her committee and a host of other senior backbenchers.
It would require the Planning Inspectorate in England to ban any nationally significant infrastructure project over 50MW if it could not be proven beyond doubt that slave labour had not been involved.
The new confrontation between parliament and the executive comes days after the foreign secretary, James Cleverly, returned from Beijing insisting that he had put human rights at the centre of the bilateral relationship.
Kearns told the Guardian: "Cleverly talked the talk on the Uyghur genocide in Beijing. It's time for the government to put its legislative might behind its strong rhetoric. By adopting this amendment to the energy bill, they can ensure that nationally significant infrastructure projects are far more transparent and become more free from forced labour.
"Taking even this small stand against all forms of slave labour would help put an end to the UK becoming a dumping ground for slave labour-produced solar. Uyghur blood labour must not stain our countryside.

"The fight against forced labour is a collective responsibility. Together, we must pave a path towards a clean energy transition, without becoming complicit in not just slavery, but genocide."
A letter signed by 15 human rights groups in the Coalition to End Forced Labour in the Uyghur Region says forced labour is rife in Xinjiang and sets a high bar, arguing: "Due to systemic use of forced labour in the region, there is no valid means for companies to verify that any workplace in the Uyghur region is free of forced labour or to prevent the use of forced labour in the region in line with human rights due diligence."
China and parts of the UK's renewable industry will be furious if the UK backs legislation that its detractors say will lead to an effective ban on trade with the Uyghur region.
Cleverly last week ventured on the first trip to China by a UK foreign secretary in five years in a bid to put relations with Beijing on a better business footing. Cleverly insisted that he had raised human rights in all his meetings with officials.
But the cross-party determination by British MPs not to abandon the human rights agenda in China also creates a difficult backdrop for the subsequent visit by the investment minister, Lord Johnson, along with one of the largest British business delegations to a Chinese trade fair.
The Modern Slavery Act requires UK companies to report on what they are doing to free their supply chains from slave labour, but places no duty on them to do anything other than report.
The Coalition to End Forced Labour accepts that there has been some movement by solar companies to exit the Uyghur region in recent years, but says many firms are still operating there, especially with a view to supplying the UK market - where regulations are looser than in the US and EU.
The amendment requires companies to submit a report to the Planning Inspectorate "to demonstrate clear and convincing evidence that the good, or the materials in the good, were not mined, produced or manufactured wholly or in part by forced labour".
Critics will argue that the amendment sets such a high bar in requiring the proof of no forced labour that it would in effect amount to a ban on British trade with Xinjiang province. They claim parallel legislation passed in the US has led to delays in the installation of solar equipment.
The US Bureau of Labor estimates that "100,000 Uyghurs and other ethnic minority ex-detainees in China may be working in conditions of forced labour following detention in re-education camps. Many more rural poor workers also may experience coercion without detention."
In 2021 the US bureau added polysilicon to the list of items "produced by forced labour by Muslim minorities in China". It argues that Uyghurs are now forced to work not just in Xinjiang but elsewhere in China.
Both the Foreign Office and Labour frontbench have been asked to comment.
Separately, Kearns is backing a move to limit large ground-based solar farms that the industry says will add £5bn to household bills. The cost would add £180 per household to energy bills, according to the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit.
The government wants to build 70GW of solar capacity by 2035 and a large proportion of this will have to come from infrastructure installed on the ground.
#61
Woodside Energy is facing the prospect of an overwhelming protest vote against its climate plans when shareholders meet on Wednesday, as global investors pick apart the emissions strategy of Australia's biggest oil and gas company.
Norway's largest pension fund, KLP, and Britain's biggest asset manager, LGIM, are the latest investors to disclose they will vote against Woodside's climate report, citing concerns over its carbon transition plans.
Critics have described Woodside's strategy as overly reliant on offsets and not aligned with Paris climate agreements, even after it revamped its policies before this year's annual general meeting.
The energy producer has also been criticised for pursuing plans to develop new fields, representing an expansion in fossil fuel production at a time opponents say the sector must rein in emissions.
 "There is no way to achieve the climate objectives of the Paris agreement without a drastic decline in the burning of oil and gas," KLP said.
"For most oil and gas companies this will mean reducing production over time, ideally replaced by renewable energy."
Woodside's climate report will be put to a non-binding vote. It's the first time investors will be able to directly respond to its plans since delivering a robust 49% protest vote against its policy two years ago.
That remains the highest protest vote recorded against the dozens of listed companies around the world that regularly put climate-related resolutions to shareholders.
While non-binding votes don't automatically trigger a policy change, they are a way for shareholders to express their disapproval, placing pressure on directors to change direction.
Analysis by the climate activist group Market Forces shows that four of the top 10 largest protest votes against climate policies have been lodged against Australian companies, headed by Woodside (49% against), Santos (37%), AGL (31%) and APA Group (21%).
Energy and resources companies, especially in Europe, make up the majority of those with climate reports subject to shareholder input.
"Woodside has failed to respond adequately to world-record shareholder backlash on non-binding climate votes, doubling down on climate-wrecking gas growth plans," said Will van de Pol, the chief executive of Market Forces.
Market Forces and some large investors oppose the re-election of Woodside chairman Richard Goyder. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP
"Another massive vote against Woodside's climate plan is meaningless unless investors escalate pressure through their binding votes on directors and deliver a strike against Woodside's growth-focused remuneration scheme."
Market Forces and some large investors oppose the re-election of Woodside chairman Richard Goyder and the company's renumeration plans as part of their broader protest against Woodside's climate plans.
The push against Woodside's climate report looks significant but according to an analysis of voting intentions disclosed by major investors the move against Goyder appears more muted, with some major investors including superannuation fund Hesta expressing support for the chairman.
A Woodside spokesperson said Goyder and his leadership team had held numerous "direct engagements" with shareholders on climate strategy and governance, and listened carefully to investors.
"The Woodside board believes Mr Goyder is a highly capable and effective leader, and continues to provide valuable insight, stewardship and strength to the board and its deliberations generally as a result of his extensive business career and board experience," the spokesperson said.
Goyder is one of the most high profile directors in Australia, and is the outgoing chair at Qantas.
Woodside told shareholders it had held more than 130 investor meetings in 2024 at which climate matters were discussed.
The Woodside chief executive, Meg O'Neill, has consistently said that Australia needs new gas developments to protect against an energy shock and to be used as an alternative to coal for electricity generation.
"In response to investor feedback Woodside committed to put its climate disclosures to a vote of shareholders at this year's AGM," the company said.
"Such a vote is not required by law or a feature of common market practice, but is something that our investors specifically asked for and we have met this commitment."
Prominent governance group and proxy adviser CGI Glass Lewis said that while there had been an "evident shift in tone" demonstrated by Woodside to shareholder concerns, its climate plans still fall short of expectations.
It has urged shareholders to vote down the report and vote against Goyder's re-election.
"While Woodside has shown some progress in its most recent climate plan by providing disclosure regarding the extent of its shareholder engagement, it still falls short of expectations," CGI Glass Lewis said.
The Australasian Centre for Corporate Responsibility (ACCR), a shareholder advocacy group, said Woodside's climate policy replicated many of the problems of the past, such as adopting a plan based on expanding oil and gas projects and relying on offsets rather than genuine emission reductions.
The ACCR executive director, Brynn O'Brien, said Goyder was facing the prospect of a shareholder revolt over his board's "chronic unresponsiveness" to investor concerns in how the company manages climate risk.
"It is a world first for an incumbent chair of a major oil and gas company to face the threat of being held personally accountable for company climate failings," O'Brien said.
#62
France is Europe's biggest supporter of "carbon bomb" extraction projects that hold enough fossil fuels to pump out more than a gigaton of CO2 each, the Guardian can reveal.
Since world leaders gathered in the French capital to sign the Paris agreement in 2015 - where they promised to try to stop the planet heating by 1.5C above pre-industrial levels - French banks have financed companies planning or operating carbon bombs amounting to $154bn.
The carbon bombs are the 425 biggest fossil fuel extraction projects in the world. Beneath them, there is enough coal, oil and gas to burn through humanity's carbon budget to stay within 1.5C four times over, experts say.
 "Fossil fuel companies and banks have implemented a cynical strategy," said Valerie Masson-Delmotte, a climate scientist at CEA Paris-Saclay who co-chaired the physical science section of the most recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
Despite an aim to become carbon neutral by 2050, she said, they were "acting now to increase the use of fossil fuels and thus emissions - deliberately ignoring one of the strongest scientific findings relating cumulative CO2 emissions with global warming levels".
Research by the French NGOs Data for Good and Éclaircies, together with European media outlets including the Guardian and Le Monde, found that French banks poured more money into the companies operating these projects than those of any other country in Europe, behind only those of China and the US.
The four French banks - BNP Paribas, BPCE Group, Crédite Agricole and Société Générale - together invested $17.8bn in 2022 in companies planning or operating carbon bombs, the research found. Over the six-year period from 2016, the recipients ranged from oil and gas companies in the US to state-owned energy companies in countries from Brazil to Saudi Arabia to China.
The original database of carbon bomb projects came from a research paper that counted 425 coalmines, oilfields and gasfields with potential lifetime emissions greater than 1 gigaton of CO2.
French researchers then matched them up with data on operators from Global Energy Monitor and data on financiers from Banking on Climate Chaos, an NGO report covering the 60 biggest banks.
For some projects, the information did not match up with the data used to identify the companies and banks. Some others were out of date or had an unclear operation status.
Lou Welgryn, the co-president of Data for Good, which led the research, said: "There is very little public and reliable data available to identify fossil projects worldwide, their total reserves, associated greenhouse gas emissions, and the actors involved.
"This opacity, in some cases, leads us to underestimate the number of projects associated with a company or the financial flows between a bank and companies operating carbon bombs."
The French energy company TotalEnergies is involved in at least two dozen carbon bomb projects around the world, the research showed.
A separate report from Greenpeace last week counted 33 carbon bombs in which TotalEnergies was involved, calculated using a less conservative methodology that counted upstream emissions.
The report also found TotalEnergies was implicated in the acquisition of new exploration licences for 84 projects since 2015. Eleven of these were after 2021, when the International Energy Agency (IEA) warned that all new oil and gas exploration was incompatible with with its net zero emissions scenario.
Edina Ifticene, a fossil fuel campaigner with Greenpeace France, said TotalEnergies presented itself as providing a service to the public by meeting demand for fossil fuels. "But it is by developing new oil and gas projects that the fossil fuel industry artificially creates this demand - so they can reap outrageous profits and lock us into decades more of dependence on fossil fuels."
A spokesperson for TotalEnergies said: "The IEA forecasts growth in oil and gas production between now and 2028. In this context, we continue to invest in new oil projects to meet the still growing global demand, particularly in developing countries. And, in anticipation of the natural decline of our current fields (4% per year), to continue to guarantee our customers access to energy available at an affordable cost."
The spokesperson also pointed to TotalEnergies' plans to increase its renewable capacity fivefold by 2030, adding that the company would invest nearly €5bn in renewable and low-carbon energies in 2023 - the first time its investments into low-carbon energies would be greater than its investments into new fossil fuel projects.
"TotalEnergies is therefore implementing its ambition in a concrete way while continuing to meet the energy needs of growing global populations," the spokesperson added.
A spokesperson for BNP Paribas said it had stopped lending to some of the companies on the list, adding that one of the underlying databases contained errors that artificially inflated its figures.
BNP Paribas updated its policies this year, the spokesperson said, and would no longer finance new oilfields and gasfields, regardless of the financing method, and that it aimed to further shift its energy-based financing to 80% for low-carbon sources by 2030. They said: "BNP Paribas has taken a proactive approach to reduce financing for highly emitting sectors."
A spokesperson for Crédit Agricole also disputed the figures in the report, saying it included double counting, and that most of the projects in the list had been in operation for many years.
They said: "We have made a commitment to no longer finance any new coalmining projects or companies developing such projects. We have also made a commitment not to finance any new oil exploration-production projects."
The spokesperson confirmed the promise referred only to project financing, not corporate financing, but said the company was committed to reducing its credit exposure to upstream oil 25% from 2020-25, in line with the IEA's net-zero scenario.
A spokesperson for BPCE Group said it supported all its customers, including big energy companies, in their energy transition and decarbonisation strategies.
"This partnership approach is essential and is more beneficial than an abrupt halt to the financing provided to customers. BPCE Group is convinced that these players, because of their technical and financial capacities, have the necessary levers to accelerate the energy transition by developing renewable and low-carbon energies."
A spokesperson for Société Générale said it had set "some of the most ambitious targets in our industry" in September. These included reducing its exposure to oil and gas production 80% by 2030 compared with 2019 levels, ending support from 2024 for new oilfields and gasfields for which a final investment decision was taken after 2021, and stopping offers of financial products and services to any private company that derives almost all of its revenues from upstream oil and gas activities.
Big energy companies often have enough money to finance their own exploration projects. But campaigners say banks could still defuse carbon bombs by refusing to finance their operators.
"Just by virtue of their scale, the biggest banks in the world can offer better interest rates," said Joe Thwaites, a sustainable finance campaigner at Natural Resources Defense Council. "If you have major financiers refusing to finance fossil fuels, it's not to say that the extraction companies won't be able to find other sources, but they may have to pay a premium. It's the equivalent of if you're unable to go to a high street bank and you're forced to go to a loan shark."
Banks often argue that if they do not finance fossil fuel projects, somebody else will, he added. "That's the drug dealer's defence."
#63
The Victorian government has approved its first gas extraction project in a decade, near the celebrated tourist site the Twelve Apostles, despite its plans to wean the state's households off the fossil fuel.
The premier, Jacinta Allan, and the minister for energy and resources, Lily D'Ambrosio, on Thursday announced the approval of Beach Energy's plan to pipe gas from an offshore field near Port Campbell, in western Victoria, from 30 June.
Allan said the government approved the South Australian company's plan on the condition it sells the gas to "domestic customers first".



"This is the first production application that has been approved since 2014 because it's the only one that has been received by the government since 2014," she said.
"It reflects the reality that it is a diminishing resource and ... whilst it will play a role in our energy transition, it's not going to play the role that it once did."
Allan said the government remained on track to reach its target of 95% renewable energy generation and 5% gas peaking power by 2035.
She also said it did not affect plans to transition households away from gas, including through a ban on new gas connections for new dwellings, apartment buildings and residential subdivisions, which came into effect in January.
"We have to take on board the advice of the experts who tell us we need to - where we can - support households and businesses to become all electric," Allan said.
"It's a cheaper source of energy but also too it maintains the availability of that diminishing gas resource for those businesses and manufacturers and parts of the power industry that need that ongoing gas supply."
Beach Energy has had permission to explore for gas in the Otway Basin since May 2019, and it was revealed in 2021 the project received consent from D'Ambrosio to drill beneath the Port Campbell national park.
Its onshore drill site is 450m outside the park but the bore extends 3.5km out into the ocean, including a 1.3km stretch passing underneath the national park.
It is also located about 5km away from the Great Ocean Road and the Twelve Apostles, one of Australia's most popular tourist attractions. However, it is located outside the Twelve Apostles Marine Park and it has met the government's environmental requirements.
The Greens acting spokesperson for climate change, Samantha Ratnam, said it was "absolutely outrageous" the government had approved the "disastrous project right near the Twelve Apostles".
"Labor are choosing to ignore communities and First Nations groups who have blatantly said they don't want these projects to go ahead," she said.
Environment Victoria said the project would "pipe gas under the iconic Twelve Apostles, risking one of our environmental drawcards for less than a year's gas supply".
"Victoria needs to get off expensive, polluting gas and we don't do that by drilling new fields. Gas will be responsible for more than a third of Victoria's greenhouse gas emissions by 2035 if we don't urgently electrify," said the non-profit groups' senior climate and energy adviser, Kat Lucas-Healey.
Friends of the Earth Melbourne said there was "no excuse or need for another gas project in this country".
The project is expected to produce 160 petajoules over 15 years, which has already been factored into Australian Energy Market Operator forecasts.
D'Ambrosio said this meant the project would not ease the expected shortages caused by dwindling supplies.
She denied the government was sending "mixed messages".
"The fact is we're going to continue to need gas for many years to come but our reliance on it will diminish over time because it is depleting," she said.
Victoria is the country's largest consumer of gas, with more than 2m households and small businesses using it largely for heating, as well as for hot water and cooking.
Burning gas produces about 16% of the state's total emissions, with households and small businesses responsible for almost two-thirds of those emissions.
#64

Shell has paused the construction of one of Europe's largest biofuel plants which was expected to convert waste into green jet fuel and biodiesel by the end of the decade.
The oil company said on Tuesday it would "temporarily pause" work on one of its biggest energy transition projects to address the technical difficulties that have delayed its progress so far.
Shell began constructing the plant, based in Rotterdam in the Netherlands, in 2021, and had initially expected to start producing up to 820,000 tonnes of biofuels a year in April, before this was pushed back to 2025.
About half of the plant's biofuels were to be used for sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) made from waste cooking oil and animal fat. The fuel is seen by some as crucial if airlines are to cut their carbon emissions in line with global climate targets.
The nascent industry has also attracted criticism from those who claim that SAF is not a realistic replacement for paraffin-based aviation fuels within the timescale needed to prevent rising carbon emissions from creating a climate catastrophe.
 "We're taking the tough decision now to temporarily pause on-site construction," a Shell spokesperson said. "This gives us the opportunity to take stock, complete engineering, optimise project sequencing and in doing so maintain capital discipline."
The spokesperson added: "Low-carbon fuels form a key part of Shell's ambitions to provide affordable and sustainable products to our customers."
The aviation industry accounts for 3% of the world's carbon emissions, and is seen as one of the most difficult forms of transportation to decarbonise.
The decision to pause the work deals another blow to Shell's biofuels plans after the company cancelled an SAF project at Singapore's Bukom Island in March last year.
Shell was considering investment in a plant that could produce 550,000 tonnes of SAF a year to supply major Asian hubs such as Hong Kong International airport and Singapore's Changi.
The blow to Shell's green aviation plans has come after the company signalled a scaling back of its green growth ambitions by reducing the number of staff working on low-carbon solutions by at least 200 roles, while a further 130 positions will be placed under review.
The decision is expected to affect Shell's plans for offshore wind development and sharply scale back its ambitions to fuel hydrogen passenger vehicles. Shell was an early adopter of hydrogen, which has fallen out of favour as electric vehicles become more popular.
Instead, Shell's chief executive, Wael Sawan, is planning to shift its focus towards high-profit oil projects and expanding its gas business to exploit higher global oil and gas prices after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The rise in global energy market prices has prompted executives across the oil and gas industry to review green investment plans and climate targets.
BP confirmed last week it would halt investment in new offshore wind projects, and place a hiring freeze for the new business division, in an apparent attempt to placate investors who are unhappy with the greener direction set by its ousted boss Bernard Looney.
#65
A climate communications group has asked the Australian consumer watchdog to investigate claims made about "renewable gas" by one of the sponsors of Network Ten's MasterChef.
Comms Declare said it had filed a complaint with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission about the Australian Gas Networks' partnership with the hit cooking show and its promotion of two developing products - "renewable" hydrogen and biomethane.
The complaint asks the watchdog to investigate the "renewable gas" campaign for alleged greenwashing.
"We believe that hundreds of thousands of MasterChef fans are being deceived into thinking that the gas used in the program is good for the planet," said Comms Declare's founder, Belinda Noble.
"The biomethane and grey hydrogen used in the MasterChef kitchen is not renewable, not low emissions, not commercially viable and not available in ordinary Australian homes."
The complaint says the AGN campaign seeks to promote products that "are not practically or environmentally viable to consumers and in doing so, encourage the continued use of fossil fuels".
It references one claim made in the current season of MasterChef that the program "is going greener with renewable gas".
Noble reiterated earlier calls by climate and environment groups for the program to drop the sponsor "and move to induction cooking, like their counterparts around the world".
Gas industry representatives and Paramount, Network Ten's owner, revealed at the season launch that contestants would use open-flame cooktops that run on biomethane in general competition and compete in a barbecue challenge on grills that use hydrogen. The biomethane is supplied by Jemena, which owns gas pipelines and distribution networks, and AGN.
Biomethane is created from organic waste such as human or animal waste or food scraps. It otherwise has the same properties as fossil gas but proponents argue it is more environmentally friendly than fossil fuels because it is releasing carbon that is already in the biological cycle and has not been extracted from the ground.
The hydrogen used on MasterChef is "grey hydrogen" made using gas through a process known as steam methane reforming, and also leads to emissions into the atmosphere. A "renewable gas" website said the emissions would be offset by buying carbon credits, while renewable hydrogen, which has zero emissions, was "intended for use in future seasons".
Environment Victoria's climate campaign manager, Joy Toose, said: "Pretending we can use hydrogen or biomethane in our gas network is an impractical fantasy."
She added: "Switching to efficient electric heating, cooking and hot water systems is not only better for our health and for the climate, they're also more affordable to run."
A spokesperson for AGN said: "Australian Gas Networks is providing biomethane and hydrogen to MasterChef Australia to practically demonstrate that customers can cook with a low carbon solution that can be delivered by existing gas networks to support Australia's transition to net zero.
"Throughout the MasterChef Australia sponsorship, we have been clear about the nature of the sponsorship and the gas used on set."
AGN had taken care to ensure it "accurately described the gas we were supplying", the spokesperson said.
Comment has been sought from Network Ten.
An ACCC spokesperson said the watchdog did not comment on potential investigations or individual businesses. 
#66
Poor countries need $1tn a year in climate finance by 2030, five years earlier than rich countries are likely to agree to at UN climate talks, a new study has found.
Waiting until 2035 to receive the funding, which is to help them cut greenhouse gas emissions and cope with extreme weather, would place damaging burdens on vulnerable countries, warned the Independent High-Level Expert Group on Climate Finance, a group of leading economists.
The study was published on Thursday morning as governments from nearly 200 countries worked on fraught negotiations over how much finance wealthier countries should provide, and how much could come from other sources, at the Cop29 summit in Azerbaijan. World leaders, who had attended the opening days of the conference in Baku, left their ministers and high-ranking officials to get on with the job of forging a new global plan on climate finance, due to wrapped up at the end of next week.
But large areas of disagreement between the rich and poor world remain, including how much money should be provided and from what sources.
The talks are focused on a goal of at least $1tn a year in climate finance for poorer countries by 2035. This figure comes from a previous study from the high-level group (IHLEG), a group of economists convened by Cop presidencies since 2021 and chaired by the economists Nicholas Stern, Vera Songwe and Amar Bhattacharya, which found in 2022 that about $2.4tn a year was needed.
At least half of this could come from poorer countries' own budgets, the original study found, leaving about $1tn a year to come from external sources, including overseas aid from richer countries.
This week's follow-up report warned that by 2035, developing countries, excluding China, would need $1.3tn a year. But waiting until 2035 to reach the $1tn goal would create future problems, the economists said.
Lord Stern said: "It's more expensive the longer you wait. This [$1tn by 2030] is absolutely possible for rich countries to achieve, but it does entail real commitment and moving quickly."
He said that about half of the $1tn could come from private sector investment, about $250bn from multilateral development banks such as the World Bank, and the remainder from a mixture of sources including direct grants from developed countries to vulnerable nations, special drawing rights from the International Monetary Fund and new forms of taxation, such as levies on aviation and shipping.
"Developed countries should embrace the logic of this analysis," he urged. "Kicking the can down the road doesn't help."
Mohamed Adow, director of the climate and energy thinktank Power Shift Africa, said of the report: "It's good to see respected economists outlining the need for trillions in climate finance. It shows that the demands from developing countries at Cop29 are legitimate and underscores the importance of getting a robust agreement on climate finance agreed here in Baku."
But he added: "While private finance has a role to play in building new renewable energy, it has failed miserably to tackle adaptation needs of vulnerable communities. That's why it's vital we get a commitment of grant based, public finance to address the issues which profit-seeking private finance can't address."
Funding for poor countries is the biggest source of contention at the Cop29 summit. Under the 2015 Paris climate agreement, rich countries have an obligation to the poor world and this year must come up with a "new collective quantified goal" (NCQG) setting out how they will meet their responsibilities.
Richer countries agree they should provide some money, but want to make up a large part of the goal with finance from the private sector. Some countries are advocating new taxes or levies to provide part of the money needed. Rich countries also want petrostates and large emerging economies with high greenhouse gas emissions, such as China, to contribute. Early drafts of a possible agreement have shown that countries are far apart on key issues.
Harjeet Singh, climate activist and global engagement director for the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative, said: "Report after report, including this one, makes it undeniable: we need trillions each year to transform economies and tackle escalating climate impacts, and the cost of inaction will be exponentially higher. Yet leaders from wealthy nations continue to bury their heads in the sand, sidestepping the essential funding that developing countries need and ignoring the fact that a just, global transition is our only path forward.
"If Cop29 fails to set a meaningful climate finance goal - real trillions in grants, not accounting tricks - we're all on the losing side. Climate devastation is already an everyday reality, and every delay only deepens the crisis for everyone."
Yalchin Rafiyev, the host country's lead negotiator, whose job it is to find compromises among the fractious governments, told the Guardian the talks were moving much as expected at this early stage. "We are making progress," he said.
The talks were lifted by an announcement from the World Bank and its fellow multilateral development banks of a doubling of their key climate finance commitments, to $120bn a year by 2030. Rafiyev said: "We have been working very hard to push development banks for more funding. This is a strong commitment."
But one high-level executive from a public finance institution told the Guardian this sum was not enough: "they could do more
#67
The environment minister, Tanya Plibersek, has given a company co-owned by Gina Rinehart approval to develop and operate up to 151 new coal seam gas wells in inland Queensland.
A spokesperson for Plibersek said the Atlas stage 3 project proposed by Senex Energy, which is jointly owned by South Korea's steel giant Posco and Rinehart, would "primarily contribute domestic gas supply to households and Australian manufacturing - including for glass, bricks, cement and food packaging".
The Senex CEO, Ian Davies, said the decision was timely "given the current pressures that the east coast energy system is experiencing, particularly in southern states".
"The clear solution is more gas supply, and our announcement today is part of that solution," he said.
Climate campaigners called the decision a "disgrace" at a time when international science and energy agencies say there can be no more exploitation of new oil, gas and coalfields if the world is to limit global heating to 1.5C.
"While Australia is distracted talking about the LNP nuclear charade, the federal government is approving new fossil fuel projects," the Australia Institute's research director, Rod Campbell, said.
"We know that new fossil fuel projects are the last thing that the climate needs. The last thing that the Australian economy needs is to be doubling down on fossil fuels at a time when we should be leading the world on decarbonisation."
The head of policy and advocacy at the Climate Council, Jennifer Rayner, said Australia's existing domestic gas supply "would be enough to meet our domestic needs for more than 60 years".
"80% of Australia's gas is used by the export industry. We have more than enough to meet our small and declining needs as we transition to clean energy," she said.
"There is a massive global glut of gas coming with projects from the US and Qatar. Australia should not be adding to our massive climate pollution from gas."
The Australian Conservation Foundation's national climate policy adviser, Annika Reynolds, said in the "midst of a climate crisis, this fossil gas project should not have been approved".
"This is federal government's reckless future gas strategy in action," Reynolds said.
Plibersek's approval is valid until 2080 and, in addition to the new wells, will allow for construction of supporting infrastructure such as access roads.
Davies said the project was a "significant boost" for domestic gas supply and would deliver 60 petajoules of gas to the east coast market from the end of 2025.
"The federal government has made it clear that gas is required until 2050 and beyond, and that investment in new gas supply is needed if we are to reach net zero with thriving industries," he said.
The Lock the Gate Alliance's national coordinator, Ellen Roberts, accused the coal seam gas industry in Queensland of "irreversibly damaging the state's best farmland".
"Water has been contaminated, water bores drained and cropping country is sinking," she said.
Plibersek's spokesperson said the "Albanese government has to make decisions in accordance with the facts and the national environment law - that's what happens on every project, and that's what's happened here".
"The government will continue to consider each project on a case-by-case basis, under the law," the spokesperson said.
They said the approval included conditions to protect nature, including "strict limits" on habitat loss.
"Under Labor, we've already seen a 25% increase in renewable energy in our grid," they said.
"We are ticking off renewables energy projects at record rates, outstripping coal and gas projects seven to one. And we have record numbers of renewable energy projects in the approval pipeline."
The Greens' leader, Adam Bandt, said the announcement showed the government were "climate frauds".
"There is now next to no difference between Labor and the Liberals when it comes to coal and gas," he said.
#68
Ten of Australia's best-known corporations - including Coles, Telstra, Woolworths and Qantas - have no clear plans to stop using or supporting fossil fuels despite having targets to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions, according to a report.
The companies were also failing to report clearly the impact of their businesses on the climate warming caused directly or indirectly from land clearing.
The report, from the University of Technology Sydney's Institute for Sustainable Futures, examined in detail the climate plans and disclosures of Coles, Woolworths, Telstra, Rio Tinto, Qantas, BlueScope Steel, Origin, AGL, Cleanaway and South 32. The companies were selected as major emitters in their respective industries.

Commissioned by a new Australia-based advocacy group, Climate Integrity, the report said none of the 10 Australian companies had a "comprehensive, independently verified and fully costed plan for reducing their emissions" that was in line with a scientifically credible pathway to decarbonise quickly enough to keep global heating to 1.5C.
Researchers assessed companies against guidelines laid out in late 2022 by a UN expert group after broad concerns that corporate climate pledges were often vague, inconsistent, incomplete, over-reliant on offsets and in some cases amounted to greenwashing.
The level of alignment of the Australian companies with the UN group's recommendations was "disappointingly low", the report said.
Fewer than half the companies were on track to meet their own targets, the report claimed, and none had targets or plans to stop using fossil fuels.
"The lack of scientific alignment with the need to rapidly phase out fossil fuels is particularly concerning," the report said. "Without commitments to phase out fossil fuels, it is difficult to see how net zero pledges can be fulfilled."
The report found companies had aligned themselves with a "plethora of frameworks, assessments, standards and disclosure requirements" that were mostly voluntary.
It said none of the companies disclosed enough information for researchers to understand if or how companies were accounting for the impact of land clearing in their climate targets.
Claire Snyder, the director at Climate Integrity, said there was little consistency in the achievements and failings across the company plans. "That demonstrates there's no clear standard or shared understanding among companies of what [a credible net zero plan] should look like," she said.
Snyder said Climate Integrity would push for policy change in Australia that would give the public confidence that claims made by companies were credible and give industry a clearer set of expectations.
The Albanese government is expected to introduce legislation later this year to mandate what information companies should disclose in their financial reports relating to the risks from climate change.
Alison Atherton, one of the report's authors at UTS, said the research showed a "high degree of variability in the information being provided publicly by companies".
"Decision makers, researchers, consumers and investors need to be able to have confidence in these plans," she said.
Only three companies - Woolworths, Coles and Telstra - had targets verified by the international Science Based Targets initiative.
Woolworths Group said it was making "good progress on reducing our reliance on fossil fuels, with our operations switching to 100 per cent renewable electricity within the next two years, and our fleet of 1,200 home delivery trucks set to become electric by 2030". 
Coles said it was committed to cutting emissions and being more efficient with resources "in areas over which we have control and influence".
About 90% of the company's emissions were generated in its supply chain, the company said, and it was working with 75% of suppliers to help them set emissions reduction targets by 2027.
"We are on track to achieve our Scope 1 and 2 emissions target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 75% by June 2030. This includes our 100% renewable electricity goal by June 2025."
The waste management company Cleanaway said it stood proudly by its emissions reduction targets for CO2 and methane - the latter of which accounts for three-quarters of the company's footprint due to releases from landfills. Capturing methane and lowering emissions in its heavy vehicle fleet, including using alternative fuels and trialling hydrogen and electric trucks, was a focus.
Telstra's head of environment, Tom Penny, said the company's target to cut direct and indirect emissions by 50% by 2030 "includes efforts to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels".
"Telstra takes its role in helping to tackle climate change seriously," he said, adding the company had a commitment to invest in enough renewable energy generation to match its own electricity consumption by 2025.
AGL, Australia's biggest greenhouse gas emitter, said its climate transition action plan outlined its pathway to becoming a net zero company by 2050, including its direct and indirect emissions.
It was "targeting the closure of our last thermal power station, Loy Yang A, by the end of FY35, at which point we will be net zero for operated Scope 1 and 2 emissions".
AGL said it expected to spend $8bn to $10bn developing "12 GW of new renewables and firming capacity by the end of 2035" and would "build out the new renewables and firming that will be needed to help Australia meet its climate targets".
The gas and electricity company Origin said gas would play an "important role in the energy mix for some time, to support variable renewable energy output" and for "customers who cannot easily electrify and for which there is no viable alternative to gas available today".
It welcomed scrutiny of its "appropriately ambitious" climate plans and expected to meet its 2030 targets largely through direct actions "with limited use of offsets only for residual emissions that are hard to abate".
Qantas said aviation was a "hard-to-abate sector" and "high integrity offsets were key to us meeting emission reduction targets until sustainable aviation fuel and low and zero-emissions technologies are more readily available".
The company's interim target to use 10% sustainable aviation fuel by 2030 would be mostly met with a deal with Airbus and Boeing to secure up to 500m litres.
The Perth-based mining company South 32 said as well as having a target to reach net zero emissions across all areas of the business by 2050, the company had a medium-term target to halve its operational emissions from 2021 levels by 2035.
The mining and metals company said its climate change action plan, first released in 2022, would be reviewed every three years. Having targets aligned with the global Paris agreement was "a critical step as we continue to assess options to align our business to prosper in a low-carbon world".
The company did not have interim targets related to emissions from the use of its products, but was working with suppliers and customers to reduce those emissions.
Bluescope Steel said it was not in a position to respond and Rio Tinto declined to comment.
#69
Victorians face a more than doubling of transmission charges on electricity bills if the state government proceeds with plans for what is likely to be the most costly and longest single power line in Australia's history, a thinktank says in a new report.
The report by the Victoria Energy Policy Centre (VEPC) argues the proposed 500 kilovolt VNI West transmission line linking Melbourne's outskirts with Wagga Wagga on an 800km path will be far costlier than alternatives and faces extensive landholder opposition. It also will not solve grid bottlenecks holding back new solar and windfarms in the state.
The Australian Energy Market Operator (Aemo), which first proposed VNI West as a $2.7bn project in 2018 and is Victoria's main planner for transmission, estimated users' transmission charges would need to rise by a quarter. That assessment, though, was based on 2021 prices and ignored interest costs that have since soared.


The report estimates the Victorian portion of the line alone will cost $4.9bn in current dollars. Add in a further $3bn needed for upgrades to the existing 220kV networks to integrate VNI West, and the full cost could swell to $11bn and lift Victorians' transmission charges by at least 124%.
"The cost has blown out again and again and again," said Bruce Mountain, the VEPC's director and one of the report's authors. "Aemo rightfully should long since have said, 'We need to think again, this is not getting anywhere.'"
The falling price of renewables has offered nations endowed with lots of wind and sunshine potentially low-cost ways to decarbonise their economies. However, planning the transition is proving to be challenging, while the global rush to introduce new technologies to head off global heating means equipment prices are rocketing.
Victoria's energy minister, Lily D'Ambrosio, said the government would consider the report "but rigorous analysis by Aemo shows that VNI-West provides value to Victorian energy consumers, helping to keep the lights on across the state as our ageing coal-fired generators close".
"New transmission is vital for securing affordable and reliable renewable energy for Victorians - these projects will form part of the national electricity grid, allowing 3.4GW of new renewable generation to be built in Victoria," D'Ambrosio said, adding that state agency Vicgrid was "already providing greater oversight of the [Western Renewables Link] and VNI West projects".
Merryn York, an Aemo executive general manager, said the agency had addressed the centre's claims previously. Such reports created "on-going confusion and concern for landholders and communities".
"Our consultation process for VNI West involved hundreds of stakeholders to identify a preferred option that is forecast to deliver $1.4bn in net market benefits, and harness 3,400 megawatts of renewable generation in Victoria - enough to meet the annual electricity needs for approximately 2.3m homes," she said.
York also dismissed the report's "Plan B" that the authors said would result in 13% less curtailment - renewable energy generated that exceeds grid capacity - and rely mostly on existing transmission links to support windfarms off the Gippsland coast.
Plan B "would not sufficiently support renewable generation development in north-west Victoria, require the demolition of people's homes to widen the 1,040km of existing easements and threaten power supply to major regional and rural towns during construction," she said.
Mountain challenged Aemo to provide proof to support its dismissal of the VEPC's alternative. The onus was also on the agency to demonstrate how the VNI West plan squared with Victoria's target of sourcing 95% of its electricity from renewables by 2035.
VNI West, too, implied Victoria would need to rely on New South Wales for much of its electricity even though its northern neighbour was potentially in an even more precarious power position as ageing coal plants exit the grid, Mountain said.
#70
The energy and climate minister Graham Stuart asked BP about the incentives required to "maximise" extraction of oil and gas from the North Sea, documents released under freedom of information rules have revealed.
Stuart's meeting with the corporation's UK boss, Louise Kingham, last year came days after BP had announced a record profit of $28bn (£23bn) for 2022, raised its dividend to shareholders, and rowed back on its aim to cut its carbon emissions by 2030. Households were also enduring very high energy bills. BP will report its profits for 2023 on Tuesday.
Stuart also asked for advice from Kingham about winning the argument that UK oil production was "good" and part of the net zero transition. Experts have repeatedly refuted arguments that new oil and gas production can increase UK energy security or lower prices.
The UK's oil and gas body granted 24 new drilling licences to BP and other companies last Wednesday, following 27 licences in October and with more to follow in the coming months. The chair of the UK's official climate advisers said in January that "further licensing [is] inconsistent with climate goals". The International Energy Agency said in 2021 that any new fossil fuel developments were incompatible with reaching net zero emissions by 2050.
"Drilling for new North Sea oil will undermine the UK's climate commitments and won't ensure energy security, yet the minister cynically sought BP's help to try and 'win' the opposite argument," said Chris Garrard, of the campaigns and research organisation Culture Unstained, which made the FoI request.
"What's more disturbing though, is that days after BP had announced record profits, he seems to assure BP that there are incentives and money to keep its polluting fossil fuels flowing, all while the public struggled to pay their energy bills," he said.
The documents released include a heavily redacted readout of a meeting between Stuart and Kingham on 17 February 2023. Stuart asked: "Where do you think we are in terms of having the right incentives in place to maximise recovery from [the] North Sea and keep making the case to win the argument why producing it in the UK is good, and is part of the net zero transition, to make sure we minimise our imports?"
He said: "The money is there, making incentives and structures to allow it to flow."
Stuart also asked Kingham for information to use in making the argument for new North Sea production: "We will be using oil and gas and, if we don't do it ourselves, we will be spending that money elsewhere. Adding that up I would like a number saying do we really want to spend x billions relying on foreign imports."
Large sections of Kingham's responses are redacted, with government officials citing "commercially confidential information". But she said: "Ideologically, you need to think where to do tax or incentives, because you won't get the investment." She also said BP was "proud of [its] work and the jobs it creates and ever cleaner barrels", adding that the argument would be "amplified by some social media and ads".
Tessa Khan, at the campaign group Uplift, said: "BP's got a nerve telling our government that the industry needs more tax breaks and subsidies or they won't invest, in the middle of a cost of living crisis driven by energy bills and when it's just announced $28bn in profit."
"What's really egregious, though, is the minister responding that 'the money is there' for profiteering oil giants at the same time as it's just cut off vital support to millions of households who literally can't afford to heat their homes," she said. "There's no question at all about whose side this government is on."
A government spokesperson said: "Minister Stuart is absolutely right to be backing domestic oil and gas, as the UK will still be using oil and gas even when we reach net zero in 2050. It is good for our energy security, supports up to 200,000 jobs and has brought in £400bn in tax revenue to date [over the past 50 years] which has been used to help families with the cost of living and fund public services. The £6bn raised by our energy profits levy on oil and gas producers alone helped us pay around half a typical household's energy bill last winter."
"Ministers will continue to meet with energy companies to encourage investment into the UK and end reliance on costly foreign imports of liquefied natural gas with higher emissions," she said.
A spokesperson for BP said: "BP is a major UK-headquartered company with plans to invest significantly in the UK's energy systems and transition. As such, we have regular meetings with government departments. This discussion focused on how the UK could continue to attract investment and maintain pace after the US Inflation Reduction Act in both today's oil and gas system and in renewable and low carbon projects." The act supports renewable energy.
Fossil fuel companies have received £80bn in UK government support since 2015. Most of the 24 new drilling licences were granted to foreign companies. On Friday it was revealed that an oil and gas company owned by a major Tory donor, which had previously been fined for illegal flaring, was awarded one of the drilling licences.
In January, the former Conservative energy minister Chris Skidmore resigned as an MP in protest at the party's dash for oil and gas, calling the policy a "tragedy" that is "wrong and will cause future harm".
#71
Amid rising global temperatures and a looming election against an opponent who has indicated he will gut his climate policies, Joe Biden's administration is shoveling billions of dollars into efforts it hopes will spur enduring cuts to planet-heating emissions, no matter the occupant of the White House.
In recent weeks, large tracts of funding has been announced by the administration to help overcome some of the thorniest and esoteric challenges the world faces in driving down carbon pollution, seeding the promise of everything from the advent of zero-emissions concrete to low-pollution food production, including mac and cheese and ice-cream, to driving the uptake of solar panels and electric stoves in low-income households.
"We are seeing billions of dollars going into really tricky parts of the energy transition and if there's momentum behind this we will be measuring the impacts many years in the future," said Melissa Lott, a professor at Columbia University's climate school. "I would expect these investments to have knock-on impacts well outside the US's borders."
The spending is the most significant yet to come via the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), Biden's signature climate bill, and the gusher of cash has a certain urgency. By January, Donald Trump, who has called some of Biden's climate policies "insane", could be president and Republicans, who have already attempted to gut the IRA and have called the latest spending a "greendoggle", could hold Congress.
 It's very tough for a new administration to pull back funding once it has already committed
Melissa Lott, Columbia University'
"The money from the IRA needs to get out of the door due to the urgency of the climate crisis but also the politics of this year and next year," said Lott. "If money has been already committed, it's gone. It's very tough for a new administration to pull back funding once it has already committed."
But the new funding in many ways goes beyond the short-term politicking that has haunted the US's ponderous response to the climate crisis. Last week, $20bn was awarded under the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, a mechanism set up by the IRA, to non-profit groups that will provide low-interest loans for clean energy projects, such as installing solar panels on community centers, or heat pumps and induction stoves in households that couldn't otherwise afford them.
"For the first time in history, we are providing tens of billions of dollars directly to community lenders to finance local climate projects," said Kamala Harris, the US vice-president, in unveiling the spending. Michael Regan, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, said the funding would be "transformational".
The aim of these new "green banks" will be to multiply this infusion - the EPA predicts that the private sector will increase the overall funding seven-fold to about $150bn, accelerating the replacement of polluting appliances with cleaner versions, greening public transit and boosting renewable energy going to the grid, particularly in low-income neighborhoods.
Each small win will deliver new emissions cuts, culminating years beyond the next election term, as will the Biden administration's other big recent announcement, of $6bn to drive the decarbonization of industrial processes such as making steel, creating aluminum, pouring concrete and even producing ice-cream and pasta.
In many ways, the US is now plunging into the unglamorous guts of the vast, knotty task to rewire almost all processes undergirding modern life, in order to meet the deep yet rapid emissions cuts that scientists say are imperative if the world is to avoid unbearable global heating.
Yet more work is under way. The administration has lent $1.5bn to reopen a nuclear plant in Michigan - an energy source that doesn't emit carbon but is still controversial among environmental groups - while new plans have been set out to rid buildings of their reliance on fossil fuels.
The administration has also poured millions into climate adaptation. On Thursday, it announced $830m in grants to boost the resilience of transportation infrastructure to climate disasters and extreme weather. And last month, it awarded $120m to Indigenous tribes to prepare for climate impacts.
"This is the work of implementation - it's a ton of different things all at once," said Lott. "We need to get to net zero emissions to solve climate change and it's essential that this work starts now because replacing existing infrastructure takes decades."
A new 'green bank'
A long-held dream of some Democrats in Congress has been a national "green bank" that will provide financing for climate-friendly initiatives that traditional lenders overlook.
The Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund comes close to achieving this, although via the method of distributing funds to outside groups to do the lending. A total of eight non-profits are sharing the $20bn, with the largest single grant going to a group called Climate United.
The funding presents "a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to tackle the climate crisis while building a stronger economy for all Americans", according to Beth Bafford, chief executive of Climate United.
The funding will allow individuals, business and community groups to undertake a range of climate projects, from the installation of electric stovetops in homes to bigger tasks, such as building new, energy-efficient housing or providing a fleet of electric school buses.
The selected applicants have vowed to back projects that collectively slash emissions by 40m tons of carbon dioxide a year, but the longer-term hope is that the emissions cuts will grow as the green bank ecosystem generates its own momentum. "$20bn is serious funding and so there's every chance it will snowball," said Lott.
Clean concrete, steel, aluminum and pasta
Industrial processes contribute about a quarter of all planet-heating emissions in the US but the sector has been considered difficult to green, unlike other areas, such as the electrification of cars or the adding of solar and wind to the power grid.
High-heat activities such as creating steel or concrete are still reliant on fossil fuels but the Biden administration has said this can be reversed via $6bn in new spending on cutting-edge technologies. Jennifer Granholm, the US energy secretary, has said the 33 funded projects represent "the single largest industrial decarbonization investment in American history".
The projects include a new aluminum casting plant in West Virginia that will run on hydrogen, rather than gas - the first of its kind. Six different projects will create zero emission or low-emissions cement, the key ingredient of concrete, Kraft Heinz, the food manufacturer, will get $170.9m to install electric boilers and heat pumps at its facilities to create, among other things, pasta without fossil fuels. Unilever will get up to $20.9m to decarbonize its production of ice-cream.
"We are ready to retire the term 'hard to abate'," said Hilary Lewis, an expert in green steel at Industrious Labs. "These announcements show we have solutions to get to net zero emissions in many sectors. A lot more needs to be done, but it really is possible now."
#72
Britain's transition to a low-carbon future has reached a milestone with the closure of its last remaining coal-fired power plant at Ratcliffe-on-Soar in Nottinghamshire.
The shutdown of the 57-year-old power plant on Monday ends more than 140 years of coal power generation in the UK - an industrial story closely interwoven with Britain's socioeconomic and political history.
Between the point when Britain's first coal power plant began generating in 1882 until Ratcliffe's closure, the UK's coal plants burned through 4.6bn tonnes of coal and emitted 10.4bn tonnes of carbon dioxide, according to analysts at Carbon Brief, more than most countries have ever produced from all fossil fuel sources.
The end of an era has been welcomed by trade unions, green campaigners and politicians as an exemplar for how polluting industries can be wound down while safeguarding its labour force and communities. It also provides a chance to look back and reflect on the central role coal has played in powering modern Britain:
The coal revolution
Britain's reliance on coal dates back to the Roman empire. The British Geological Survey believes the Romans may have begun mining in the Nettlebridge area of Somerset, England, close to the Fosse Way, to source coal used as fuel to heat baths and forge iron. But it was the Industrial Revolution when coal came into its own as a crucial driver of Britain's emerging industrial might.
Demand for coal exploded in the 1700s thanks to a population boom. Initially, the nascent British mining industry struggled to keep up with demand, but the invention of the steam engine in 1712 unlocked the potential of Britain's abundant reserves in the coalfields of central Scotland, south Wales, the Midlands and north-east England.
Coal-driven Newcomen engines pumped out the water that regularly flooded the mines, affording access to deeper and more plentiful reserves. In the early 1700s, about 3m tonnes of coal were mined every year - a number that exploded to more than 30m tonnes by the 1830s.
In the early 1800s, coal was used to make town gas for lighting and to fuel the expansion of Britain's burgeoning railways. But it was only in 1882 that Britain opened the world's first public coal-fired power station at London's Holborn Viaduct. The plant, built by Thomas Edison's Edison Electric Light Company, initially generated enough electricity for almost 1,000 street lights from Holborn Circus to St Martin's Le Grand as well as private residences. Other small-scale coal power plants followed.
The fossil-fuel century
At the start of the 20th century almost 100% of Britain's electricity was generated by coal plants. By 1950, its dominance remained largely unchallenged at 96%, and in the late 1960s and 1970s Britain's state-owned Central Electricity Generating Board ushered in a new generation of super coal plants.
In 1966, Ferrybridge C began generating electricity on the River Aire in West Yorkshire. It opened with a generating capacity of 2,000 megawatts from four 500MW units, the first in Europe to create electricity from a generating unit of this size.
Within two years, coal plants of a similar size mushroomed up across Britain's coalfields: Ratcliffe-on-Soar, Cottam and West Burton A all began generating power in Nottinghamshire; and the Eggborough power plant started operations in North Yorkshire.
By the end of the decade, the Ironbridge and Rugeley coal power plants began generating power in the West Midlands. In total, about 12 power stations of this scale began generating electricity in the years between 1966 and 1974, culminating in the giant Drax plant in North Yorkshire.
After a sharp slump during the 1984-1985 miners' strike coal power failed to return to the highs recorded at the start of the decade. By the 1990s, Britain's dash for gas power and rising environmental concerns spelled the beginning of a long existential decline for coal.
Powering past coal
The millennium began with coal accounting for 36% of the UK's electricity; with newer gas power plants and nuclear reactors playing a larger role in the power system. Coal plants became increasingly expensive to run owing to regulations that called for costly upgrades to help reduce pollution.
By 2008, the UK government passed the Climate Change Act - mandating an 80% cut overall in six greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 - raising questions over the future of coal generation, which produces double the carbon emissions of newer gas power plants.
In 2013, a new tax designed to top up the cost of carbon emissions tipped the scales further in favour of gas. The tax was largely responsible for the shutdown of 10 of the UK's largest coal power plants over the next decade.
In 2015, the government set out plans to end all coal-fired power generation entirely by 2025. In the same year, global governments met in Paris for the UN climate talks, leading to the 2016 Paris climate agreement to keep the rise in global surface temperature to well below 2C.
By 2020, coal power had dwindled to just 1.8% of the UK's electricity mix, and in 2021 the government brought forward the ban to October 2024. The decision to hasten the end of Britain's coal power era was announced just months before the UK hosted the Cop26 UN climate talks in Glasgow, where calls to phase out coal took centre stage.
The Ratcliffe plant had originally planned to shut in late 2022 but its owner, the German energy company Uniper, later said it would keep the plant running during the Europe-wide gas crisis triggered by Russia's invasion of Ukraine under an agreement with the government.
Michael Shanks, the minister for energy, said the closure marked the end of an era, adding: "Coal workers can be rightly proud of their work powering our country for 140 years. We owe generations a debt of gratitude as a country."
#73
Coal-fired power plants would be forced to capture smokestack emissions or shut down under a rule issued on Thursday by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
New limits on greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric plants are the Biden administration's most ambitious effort yet to roll back planet-warming pollution from the power sector, the nation's second-largest contributor to the climate crisis. The rules are a key part of Joe Biden's pledge to eliminate carbon pollution from the electricity sector by 2035 and economy-wide by 2050.
The rule was among four separate measures targeting coal and natural gas plants that the EPA said would provide "regular certainty" to the power industry and encourage them to make investments to transition "to a clean energy economy". They also include requirements to reduce toxic wastewater pollutants from coal-fired plants and to safely manage so-called coal ash in unlined storage ponds.
The new rules "reduce pollution from fossil fuel-fired power plants, protect communities from pollution and improve public health - all while supporting the long-term, reliable supply of the electricity needed to power America forward", the EPA administrator, Michael Regan, told reporters at a White House briefing.
The plan is likely to be challenged by industry groups and Republican-leaning states. They have repeatedly accused the Democratic administration of overreach on environmental regulations and have warned of a looming reliability crisis for the electric grid. The rules issued on Thursday are among at least a half-dozen EPA regulations limiting power plant emissions and wastewater pollution.
Environmental groups hailed the EPA's latest action as urgently needed to protect against the devastating harms of the climate crisis.
The power plant rule marks the first time the federal government has restricted carbon dioxide emissions from existing coal-fired power plants. The rule also would force future electric plants fueled by coal or gas to control up to 90% of their carbon pollution. The new standards will stave off 1.38bn metric tons of carbon pollution through 2047, equivalent to the annual emissions of 328m gas cars, the EPA said, and will provide hundreds of billions of dollars in climate and health benefits, measured in fewer premature deaths, asthma cases, and lost work or school days.
Coal plants that plan to stay open beyond 2039 would have to cut or capture 90% of their carbon dioxide emissions by 2032, the EPA said. Plants that expect to retire by 2039 would face a less stringent standard but still would have to capture some emissions. Coal plants that are set to retire by 2032 would not be subject to the new rules.
Rich Nolan, president and CEO of the National Mining Association, said that through the latest rules, "the EPA is systematically dismantling the reliability of the US electric grid".
He accused Biden, Regan and other officials of "ignoring our energy reality and forcing the closure of well-operating coal plants that repeatedly come to the rescue during times of peak demand. The repercussions of this reckless plan will be felt across the country by all Americans."
Regan denied that the rules were aimed at shutting down the coal sector, but acknowledged in proposing the power plant rule last year that "we will see some coal retirements".
The proposal relies on technologies to limit carbon pollution that the industry itself has said are viable and available, Regan said. "Multiple power companies have indicated that [carbon capture and storage] is a viable technology for the power sector today, and they are currently pursuing those CCS projects," he told reporters on Wednesday.
Coal provided about 16% of US electricity last year, down from about 45% in 2010. Natural gas provides about 43% of US electricity, with the remainder from nuclear energy and renewables such as wind, solar and hydropower.
The power plant rule "completes a historic grand slam" of major actions by the Biden administration to reduce carbon pollution, said David Doniger, a climate and clean energy expert at the Natural Resources Defense Council. The first and most important action was passage of the 2022 climate law, officially known as the Inflation Reduction Act, he said, followed by separate EPA rules targeting tailpipe emissions from cars and trucks and methane emissions from oil and gas drilling.
#74
Fossil fuel lobbyists coordinated with lawmakers behind the scenes and across state lines to push and shape laws that are escalating a crackdown on peaceful protests against oil and gas expansion, a new Guardian investigation reveals.
Records obtained by the Guardian show that lobbyists working for major North American oil and gas companies were key architects of anti-protest laws that increase penalties and could lead to non-violent environmental and climate activists being imprisoned up to 10 years.
Emails between fossil fuel lobbyists and lawmakers in Utah, West Virginia, Idaho and Ohio suggest a nationwide strategy to deter people frustrated by government failure to tackle the climate crisis from peacefully disrupting the expansion of fossil fuel infrastructure by enacting tough laws with lengthy jail sentences.
"Draft bill attached," wrote a lobbyist representing two influential fossil fuel trade groups to the lead counsel for the West Virginia state energy committee in January 2020.
The law, which carries a maximum 10-year prison sentence, was later used to charge at least eight peaceful climate protesters including six senior citizens.
Amid ongoing record oil and gas expansion in the US, activists say they have turned to protests and non-violent civil disobedience such as blocking roads and chaining themselves to trees, machinery and equipment as a way to slow down construction, raise public awareness, and press for more urgent climate action by governments and corporations.
Police arrest environmental activists protesting the Line 3 oil sands pipeline near Itasca state park in Minnesota on 7 June 2021. Photograph: Kerem Yücel/AFP/Getty Images
Civil disobedience is a form of political protest that involves breaking the law in a planned, symbolic way - which activists and rights experts say is part of the bedrock of a democratic society and in the tradition of civil rights movements.
The months-long investigation by the Guardian found that companies and lawmakers sought to increase the threat of criminal action against activists to protect oil and gas expansion - even as deadly and destructive extreme weather events hit communities nationwide.
Last year was the hottest on record, and wildfires, baking temperatures, deadly floods and rising sea levels struck communities across North America - and the rest of the world. Under the Biden administration, the US has handed out more than 1,450 new oil and gas licences, accounting for half of the total globally, and 20% more licences than those issued by Donald Trump, who has promised to "drill, baby, drill" should he return to the White House.
The findings from dozens of freedom of information requests suggest that the right to peaceful protest is under attack in the US - much like in other major democracies including the UK, Germany, Canada and Australia.
These countries, which are the most responsible for greenhouse gas emissions, continue to back fossil fuel expansion fueling climate breakdown while cracking down on activists and groups sounding the alarm - a trend condemned by Mary Lawlor, UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders, as "unacceptable".
"People taking peaceful action to draw attention to global warming, and calling for governments to finally do something about it, are human rights defenders - who the US government states that it supports. [But] that must mean support for all human rights defenders, even where they challenge action by the US state itself or the interests of powerful companies," said Lawlor.
"Existing legislation is being misused or new legislation is being brought in to criminalise peaceful acts calling for real action to combat climate change. This is unacceptable."
In Utah, a major oil, coal and gas producer in the Rocky Mountain region, lawmakers passed an anti-protest law carrying up to five years' jail time after discussing the need to protect fossil gas. "We're being forced out of coal, which is cheap, reliable and plentiful, but have nowhere to go to find a replacement energy source because natural gas is also under attack," a lawmaker wrote in an email in January 2023, obtained by the Guardian.
Prosecuting non-violent climate protesters is "just legalised violence", according to Bill McKibben, an environmentalist and grassroots organiser who has been arrested for participating in peaceful climate protests.
"It's disgusting, it's deeply un-American, and in the end it won't stop the transition to a cleaner world, but it will do great damage to good people and organizations in the next few years."

A volley of anti-protest laws punishing civil disobedience with felonies, fines and long jail sentences has been passed by states across the US - a response, at least in part, to the 2016 Indigenous-led non-violent uprising against the Dakota Access oil pipeline on the Standing Rock Indian reservation.
Oklahoma, the sixth-largest oil- and gas-producing state in the US, was the first to pass laws designed to hold individuals and "conspiring" organisations criminally and civilly liable for tampering with or trespassing on so-called critical infrastructure such as pipelines. This inspired a nationwide push from the American Legislative Exchange Council (Alec), a rightwing fossil fuel-funded group that brings together corporations and lawmakers behind closed doors to craft model legislation on environmental standards, reproductive rights and voting, among other issues.
According to the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law, 45 states have considered new anti-protest legislation since 2017, with 22 critical infrastructure bills enacted in states including Wisconsin, North Dakota, Missouri, Arkansas, Florida and Louisiana. A critical infrastructure law passed in Georgia in 2023 carries a penalty of up to 20 years in prison for intentional damage to critical infrastructure with the intention of disrupting service. In Louisiana, unauthorized entry around pipelines and other oil and gas facilities is punishable by imprisonment - with or without hard labor for up to five years.
So far, the critical infrastructure laws have led to scores of criminal and civil charges against climate and environmental activists in several states.
This includes three activists and a journalist in Louisiana protesting against the Dakota Access pipeline; 31 activists charged in Texas after rappelling off a bridge to hang banners protesting against oil and gas; and eight protesters in West Virginia criminally charged for peacefully disrupting construction of the Mountain Valley pipeline (MVP), the fossil fuel project forced through by the Democratic lawmaker Joe Manchin with help from the supreme court.
Critics say the wave of critical infrastructure bills is unnecessary as states can use existing laws to prosecute property destruction and violence, and that these laws impinge on the freedom of assembly, petition and speech - which are first amendment rights.
Rico Sisney, who was charged in 2019 under Texas's critical infrastructure law, said the felony charge violated his constitutional rights, leading him to approach future protest activities with "a great deal of caution".
"One of the things that makes the critical infrastructure laws so harmful is that they're essentially taking something that would be a trespassing charge and turning it into a felony," Sisney said. "It's essentially a way that the fossil fuel industry is lobbying to make it harder and harder to have free speech or to engage in these kinds of demonstrations."
Emails obtained through dozens of freedom of information requests by the Guardian found that the groups that first initiated the legislation in 2017 - including Alec, Marathon Petroleum, and American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers - have continued pushing anti-protest laws in different states, including most recently in Idaho in 2023.
The Guardian also found that the energy companies Dominion and Rocky Mountain Power pushed for anti-protest laws across different states.
"The records provide a picture of how lawmakers have been captured, and how Alec, a pay-to-play organisation, works. It's scary, because this is a direct assault on our first amendment rights ... To find novel ways to try to criminalise [protest] is just really disgusting and disturbing and shows that we're moving towards fascism," said David Armiak, research director with the Center for Media and Democracy.
In a statement, Alec defended its tactics. "Alec has long supported free speech and peaceful protests. What we don't support, however, is any criminal activity such as trespassing or damaging critical infrastructure. Any suggestions to the contrary are false," spokesperson Lars Dalseide said.
Dalseide claimed the model legislation "does not apply to climate activists". "What it does apply to is anyone who breaks into a critical infrastructure facility and/or causes damage to the facility, materials, or property. If those actions - which I believe were already against the law before 2017 - are required to take part in a non-violent protest, then perhaps we should re-examine the definition of non-violent," he said.
The new investigation by the Guardian builds on previous reporting by Documented, the Intercept, HuffPo, the Center for Media and Democracy and the International Center for Non-Profit Law that points to corporate lobbyists and state lawmakers working in cahoots to make organising against fossil fuel projects that are driving the climate emergency increasingly legally risky.
The Guardian was unable to obtain emails from lawmakers in states including Minnesota, Georgia and Texas due to restrictions on access to information.
"We're living in a climate emergency that's unfolding, and we need to move away from fossil fuels. [But] the industry is a powerful force - it's got incredible wealth, and they're doing all that they can to extend the lifeline on their industry or profit model," said Armiak, who investigates Alec's ties with the fossil fuel industry.
In the midst of a fracking boom, which helped propel it to its position as the sixth-largest gas-producing state, Ohio also became one of the first to introduce Alec's model legislation in 2018.
On 7 December 2017, Alec sent a letter to lawmakers to ask for their support of their Critical Infrastructure Protection Act. The next day, then state senator Frank Hoagland, an Alec member who runs a private security firm that has reportedly consulted for fossil fuel companies, emailed his senate colleagues asking them to co-sponsor the bill he was about to introduce, according to records obtained by the Guardian.

"Some have attempted to disrupt operations at facilities and/or damage vital infrastructure as part of a 'protest' ... I will soon be introducing legislation that seeks to discourage such activities by enhancing penalties associated with certain types of wrongful acts."
Hoagland added that the legislation was not intended to restrict first amendment rights to free speech or the ability to protest peacefully. However, he hoped the bill would pre-emptively prevent direct action.
"It may make groups or individuals think twice though, before they destroy private property or impede critical infrastructure," Hoagland wrote. He noted that Ohio lacked the scale of protests seen in other states, "but it makes sense to be prepared".
Fossil fuel lobbyists were eager to support the bill and pushed for fracking infrastructure to be protected, according to the emails.
Rob Eshenbaugh, a lobbyist registered with AFPM, Exxon and Marathon Petroleum, and lobbyists registered with Gulfport Energy met with members of the Ohio legislative service commission, which drafts legislation for lawmakers, to ask for revisions to the bill including adding language about protecting oil and gas wells. (The Guardian contacted Eshenbaugh, AFPM, Exxon, Marathon and Gulfport for comment, but did not hear back.)
According to Dave Anderson, policy and communications manager for the Energy and Policy Institute, a non-profit watchdog tracking misinformation, Ohio has passed multiple laws in recent years "geared towards financially benefiting the fossil fuel industry and protecting its interests". Lawmakers have supported industry interests despite public hearings dominated by residents concerned about environmental harms.
"What these emails show for the first time is the direct influence of lobbyists for the fossil fuel industry on this critical infrastructure bill in Ohio," said Anderson.
Hoagland, who retired from the Ohio senate in December 2023, called the allegations "misinformed and misleading". He said: "Your email appears to be merely a propaganda effort and for what reason? I have personally and professionally not heard one word on this topic."
Hoagland's 2018 bill did not pass. But it returned, backed by powerful utilities, and passed in 2021 after lobbying by more than a dozen fossil fuel trade groups and multinational corporations including Exxon and Marathon. The law carries penalties of up to eight years in prison.
The expansion looks set to continue in Ohio, which is experiencing more flooding and less ice on the Great Lakes due to global heating. JD Vance, the Ohio senator and Republican vice-president pick, has called for an expansion of pipelines and drilling wells that would tie Ohio into oil and gas for decades to come. "I believe that right now is the time to double down on the Ohio energy industry," Vance has said.
West Virginia: a controversial pipeline
One of the biggest priorities in recent years for climate and environmental activists has been the Mountain Valley pipeline (MVP), a 300-mile (480km) fossil gas pipeline stretching across the Appalachian mountains in Virginia and West Virginia. In 2018, as construction crews began clearing dense forestland, protesters occupied trees along the pipeline route. The pipeline is forecast to add nearly 90m metric tons of planet-heating emissions annually, equivalent to 23 coal plants.
Fossil fuel lobbyists and lawmakers already had a close working relationship, according to emails obtained by the Guardian, and it didn't take long for the gas industry to respond to protests by suggesting a critical infrastructure bill.
In June 2019, Dominion lobbyist Robert Orndorff emailed Robert Akers, chief counsel to the West Virginia legislature's joint energy and manufacturing committee, to explain that Amy Summers, a house delegate, had reached out to ask if they had "ever considered a bill to address civil disobedience towards pipelines", according to an email first published by the Intercept. (Dominion did not respond to the Guardian's request for comment. The company told the Intercept it did not initiate the bill.)
"I know two years ago we did pass a bill that created a criminal offence for trespass. I am not sure it addressed civil disobedience. Maybe the Energy committee should consider such a law," added Orndorff, copying other lobbyists into the email including Greg Hoyer, who lobbied for EQT Corporation, the majority shareholder and operator of the MVP.
In November 2019, Hoyer had dinner with the chairman of the state energy committee and Akers, the committee's chief counsel. After dinner, he forwarded Akers an op-ed from EQT's president and CEO, Toby Rice, saying "the industry needs to spread good news, and gas, abroad", according to an email obtained by the Guardian.
O'Neill was a registered lobbyist for two powerful trade groups: American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) and the Oil & Natural Gas Association of West Virginia. (Neither trade group nor Akers responded to requests for comment.)
Just 10 days after that email, on 30 January 2020, lawmaker John Kelly introduced the critical infrastructure protection bill, which he later admitted was at the behest of the fossil fuel industry.
"Simple explanation, this bill reinforces property rights. When a person goes on private property and does intentional damage," Kelly wrote to a constituent who questioned the legislation, in an email in February 2020 first reported by the Intercept. "The bill was requested by the natural gas industry, because protesters entered a drilling site and destroyed equipment."
The law, which carried penalties of one to five years in prison, passed in spring 2020.
In an email, Chris Hall of Orion Strategies took credit for organising support for the law that he said was "intended to preempt acts of intentional trespass and damage to critical infrastructure facilities".
"Orion Strategies would like to thank all those involved in supporting the passage of this new law that will help ensure development of some of this region's most important infrastructure projects," Hall wrote.
In an email response to the Guardian, Hall, Orion's chief financial and administrative officer, said: "Orion Strategies firmly stands by its work on this essential bipartisan legislation which increased penalties on already-illegal activities by terrorists and criminals who were destroying equipment and endangering the lives and health of workers on private property job sites. This law protects all critical infrastructure - including renewable energy, water and sewer - not just natural gas facilities."
In 2024, lawmakers amended the law to broaden offences and punish some second-offence felonies with up to 10 years in prison.
"The completion of MVP is the beginning of opportunity creation, for our communities, for America, for our allies and for the planet," said Rice, EQT's president, in June, at a joint press conference with Joe Manchin to celebrate gas flowing through the pipeline.
Utah: 'corporate capture' of government
In December 2022, after shooting attacks on electrical substations in several states by unidentified perpetrators with unknown motives, Alec promoted its model critical infrastructure protection bill as a solution. There is no evidence the attacks were linked to anyone in the climate movement.
Shortly after, lawmakers went to work pushing such laws in states including Idaho and Utah that could have major consequences for climate activists.
Utah is highly dependent on coal and gas. Fossil fuels accounted for about 80% of Utah's total electricity generation in 2023, according to the US Energy Information Administration. In February 2023, three months after Alec's suggestion, Utah introduced a critical infrastructure law that punished peaceful protests against fossil fuel infrastructure with up to five years in jail.
Lawmaker Carl Albrecht, an Alec member who has long worked to protect the state's fossil fuel industry, publicly claimed the law was in response to attacks on substations in other states. But emails obtained by the Guardian show that Republican lawmakers were brainstorming ways to protect gas, which they believed was "under attack".
At the time, Albrecht was working closely with another Republican lawmaker, Colin Jack, an "Alec policy champion", to protect coal and gas in Utah. The emails show that Jack and Albrecht asked several Utah power companies if they should pass a law defining gas as "renewable" so it would "be under less attack".
In 2023, days after Ohio's governor signed a law defining gas as "green energy", Jack wrote to lobbyists for several power and utility companies, and Albrecht, about the possibility of passing similar legislation.
"We're being forced out of coal, which is cheap, reliable, and plentiful, but have nowhere to go to find a replacement energy source because natural gas is also under attack. I wonder if there's any value to us as an industry to add natural gas to the code as 'renewable' or something, so that it will be under less attack."
In the end, Albrecht introduced the critical infrastructure bill, and emails show he made several amendments to the draft legislation per industry requests. In one example, an attorney from a major Utah power cooperative drafted language in the bill - specifically the definition of "critical infrastructure facility", which included oil and gas facilities.
Dominion, which had pushed for West Virginia's critical infrastructure law, also sought amendments to Utah's critical infrastructure law - requesting language that would protect gas and electricity. The Utah Petroleum Association also requested changes to protect fossil fuel infrastructure. Albrecht replied: "Yes, that's fine. I'll send to the drafter thx."
The Guardian reached out to Albrecht, Jack, Dominion and the Utah Petroleum Association for comment, but did not hear back.
In response to the new records obtained by the Guardian, Ruhan Nagra, director of the Environmental Justice Clinic at the University of Utah College of Law, condemned "the extent of the corporate capture and the way that industry and Alec have commandeered the machinery of the government to achieve their ends".
"It should really be shocking to people that industry is sitting there and emailing elected representatives and drafting legislation, and lawmakers are treating industry as co-drafters of legislation - that should be deeply, deeply alarming to people," Nagra said.
Utah is a deeply red state, and the Republican party currently holds the entire congressional delegation, all statewide executive offices and supermajorities in both state legislative chambers. Protests and acts of civil disobedience are among the only ways people concerned about the climate can push for change.
"In states like Utah, we cannot afford to have this type of legislation ... It's chilling speech," Nagra said.
"These critical infrastructure laws are so dangerous because they threaten to quash the only thing that can get us out of this crisis, which is a mobilised, grassroots, global community rising up and demanding change," she added.
Idaho: another bill backed by fossil fuel firms
Also in February 2023, the Idaho lawmaker Britt Raybould introduced a critical infrastructure bill in the state, which was backed by fossil fuel firms.
Supporters included Marathon Petroleum, one of the companies that in 2017 signed a letter by Alec to state lawmakers asking them to pass laws that would hold individuals and organisations criminally and financially liable for damage to any so-called critical infrastructure.
Another backer of the Idaho bill was Rocky Mountain Power, which has an energy mix that includes gas. Records obtained by the Guardian show that the company was also involved in the Utah bill.
In one committee hearing, Raybould repeated arguments made by Alec after the substation attacks. At another, she shared a map with the committee that showed other states with critical infrastructure laws. "Idaho would not be the first state to go down this path," she said. "... This is not Idaho breaking new territory, this is simply providing protection within our state."
A committee member pointed out that there was already a trespass law on the books in the state. Raybould replied that her bill mirrored the trespass language but added an "enhanced penalty". Another committee member asked if the bill was model legislation. Raybould answered: "No, however there are other states who have pursued similar legislation."
Records obtained by the Guardian show that Raybould emailed various groups asking them to testify in support of her bill, including a lobbyist registered for Rocky Mountain Power (RMP). Several companies including RMP replied to say they supported the bill. Raybould told the committee that Marathon Petroleum and RMP supported the legislation.
Raybould introduced critical infrastructure bills in 2023 and 2024, but they failed to pass.
The Guardian received no response from Raybould, Marathon or Rocky Mountain Power.
"You now have evidence that the whole Alec strategy to address the power plant attacks with the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act was just spin and a new PR method to get the bill passed in places where it hadn't passed," said Armiak from the Center for Media and Democracy.
"We all have a first amendment right to express ourselves," Armiak said. "That right should be respected. And if people aren't expressing themselves without a fear of arrest, then that is something that we should all be concerned about."
#75
US gas utilities are partnering with one of the nation's most trusted non-profits as part of a "cynical PR stunt" to combat efforts to curb fossil fuel usage, a Guardian investigation has found.
Local Habitat for Humanity affiliates have teamed up with at least four utilities across 10 states to build "zero-net energy homes", which are meant to produce more energy than they use.
The houses, which are sold at affordable rates to low-income families, are weatherized and meticulously insulated to boost efficiency and equipped with rooftop solar panels. But they also come with appliances powered by gas, a planet-heating fossil fuel that has been shown to degrade indoor air quality.
The utilities say the homes provide lower electricity bills and affordable mortgages for vulnerable families.
"It's part of our culture to really give back to the communities that we serve," Jennifer Altieri, vice-president of public affairs for Atmos Energy's Colorado-Kansas division, said in a video announcing the utility's first Habitat home in Evans, Colorado, in September 2021, which was provided to a single mother and her children.
Yet Atmos has privately described the project as something closer to a public relations tactic, intentionally launched in a state that is "on the frontlines" of attempts to quell reliance on gas.
Atmos has since expanded the Habitat partnerships to seven communities, with plans to launch similar initiatives in at least two more. National Fuel in the north-east, SoCal Gas in southern California, and Nicor in Illinois have also partnered with Habitat on zero-net energy (ZNE) projects.
The moves by utilities to attach themselves to social justice causes come as the US is embroiled in a broader political culture war over federal, state and local attempts to phase out gas and make new buildings electric.
The projects by Atmos and others have won widespread praise from gas interest groups. An autumn 2022 feature in Southeast Gas's magazine Natural Living says the Atmos-Habitat partnerships promote "healthy living", and that same year, its Evans, Colorado, home was a finalist for an ESG award from the Southern Gas Association.
"These ZNE homes demonstrate that natural gas is a part of the solution to achieve our low-carbon energy future," the award submission says.
Habitat for Humanity International has participated in international climate negotiations and says it prioritizes climate safety. In a statement, the non-profit said: "We know that innovation is required so future construction doesn't exacerbate the climate crisis."
Habitat for Humanity says it helps millions of people access affordable homes each year who are often "among the most vulnerable to the effects of climate change". But to do so, it relies on independent, locally run affiliates, which can decide how houses are built and funded.
Asked about the perceived conflict between the gas utility partnerships and its climate-related statements, a spokesperson for the organization said the group's affiliates "engage a wide range of partners". The world is "facing a growing crisis in affordable, adequate housing" which requires "a multi-faceted challenge that demands non-profit organizations, individuals, corporate partners, elected officials and more to work alongside one another", he said.
He said Habitat's advocacy and partnerships were "designed to confront the housing crisis and ensure more people have a decent place to call home". But critics say those arrangements appear to have opened the door for gas utilities to attach themselves to the organization and its reputation.
"It's a cynical PR stunt by the gas utilities," said Itai Vardi, research and communications manager at the utility watchdog group the Energy and Policy Institute, which provided some research about the partnerships to the Guardian. "We know that we need to transition very rapidly and dramatically off of fossil fuels, and there's really no good reason to build new construction that is not all electric."
Zero-net energy homes
"Zero-net energy" is a building standard requiring a home to produce as much energy as it uses. Builders first work to boost a home's efficiency with insulation and air sealing, then equip the home with energy production capacity, such as solar panels.
But efficient homes that still use gas should not be considered climate-friendly, said Mike Henchen, who leads the carbon-free buildings program at the pro-electrification non-profit RMI. "When it comes to climate, gas is part of the problem," he said. "There's this effort to hype natural gas as clean energy, but it's not."
Gas is primarily composed of methane, a greenhouse gas 80 times more planet-warming than carbon dioxide in the short term.
In the US, gas accounts for the vast majority of planet-heating pollution from buildings, which makes up more than one-10th of all US greenhouse gas emissions.
The utilities say the projects illustrate that gas can be part of decarbonization efforts. Describing its Habitat partnerships to American Gas Magazine, a representative from the gas utility Nicor said: "These homes demonstrate the importance of natural gas as part of a diverse energy mix in a net-zero future."
Jennifer Golz, spokesperson for Nicor, said that "research shows a hybrid energy approach will help drive greater emissions reductions at lower overall costs" while improving reliability during extreme weather. A spokesperson for Atmos said: "We believe a balanced energy approach that includes natural gas and preserves energy choice, rather than supporting specific fuels or technologies, will achieve goals of reducing emissions while maintaining energy reliability."
But climate experts agree that gas must be swiftly curbed to avert climate catastrophe.
Spokespeople from Atmos and Nicor did not directly respond to questions about that scientific consensus.
In an emailed comment, a representative from Colorado's Greeley-Weld Habitat affiliate said: "We have long constructed homes with a variety of energy sources, including natural gas and electricity."
Daniel Aldana Cohen, a co-director of the progressive thinktank Climate and Community Project, said the gas-powered ZNE projects made an unnecessary compromise: they tie access to affordable housing to increased planet-heating pollution.
"The two great existential crises that most people face are eviction and climate breakdown, and the second one is making the first one worse," said Aldana Cohen, whose research has informed federal Green New Deal for Public Housing proposals.
Health concerns
Experts have long warned that gas appliances can emit pollutants, including carcinogens. In recent years, a slew of studies have linked gas stoves to increased risk of childhood asthma, chronic lung disease and other health impacts.
Low-income people and people of color may be at higher risk if exposed to these pollutants, as they are more likely to have asthma and other underlying respiratory issues due to disproportionate exposure to environmental contaminants.
Gas trade groups note a recent World Health Organization-funded study found gas stoves had a non-significant impact on childhood asthma. The same study noted a connection between gas use and pneumonia and lower respiratory infections.
Last year, US regulators suggested a potential eventual nationwide gas stove ban, though Biden later ruled out such a policy.
Yet the utilities behind the partnerships have repeatedly referred to gas as "clean". And during a dedication ceremony for a zero-net energy home built by a Habitat affiliate and Atmos in Lafayette, Louisiana, a representative from the utility claimed that the air quality in the home would be of "the best quality breathing air that you can have".
Spokespeople from Atmos and Nicor did not respond to inquiries about whether the ZNE homes included gas stoves. But an Atmos representative in a December 2023 industry webinar said there was "natural gas cooking in these homes, in every single one of them".
Asked about concerns that gas appliances can degrade indoor air quality, a representative for Atmos Energy directed the Guardian to claims made by the American Gas Association, a major trade group for private gas utilities.
Public relations
Despite evidence of the dangers of gas, utilities and their interest groups are using the Habitat partnerships as a public relations tool. The Energy Solutions Center, a trade association of gas utilities, cited the partnerships in a gas-promoting marketing document for its members, which was reviewed by the Guardian. (In an emailed statement, the executive director of Energy Solutions Center, Sonia Vahedian, pointed to recent studies that it said showed gas "remains essential for energy security and will significantly contribute to economic security beyond 2050".)
And during a December 2023 industry webinar, a recording of which was also reviewed by the Guardian, a representative from Atmos said that the project began as a response to attempts to ban gas in buildings.
"In Colorado, they are a little bit on the frontlines, as far as some of the efforts to maybe dissuade people from utilizing natural gas," a representative of the utility said. "And as such, that became the chosen site for our very first natural gas-fueled ZNE home build."
Another representative went on to describe the need to produce a "marketable" product. "Like everyone in the natural gas industry ... we've kept an eye on the growing loud voice for green energy and squeezing out fossil fuels as an energy source," he said, adding that the partnerships sought to show that "natural gas can be a part of that future solution or transition state".
The choice to "combine with renewables", the representative says, is "kind of a great talking point that 'hey, we're partnering with renewables, we're not against them.'"
It's a strategy that was highlighted in a congressional report last month, based on a tranche of subpoenaed internal documents. A 2018 draft presentation from BP said one way to "harness excitement" about renewables was to suggest gas could be a backup fuel source for wind and solar.
Atmos representatives on the call also said Habitat had a "well-oiled machine in terms of public relations".
"Utilities enter into places where government investment is lacking and use that to promote its product, but also brandish its image through these kinds of PR stunts," Vardi said.
Environmental justice
Each ZNE home in these projects has gone to low-income members of vulnerable communities, including immigrants, people of color and veterans.
"The gas companies," said Aldana Cohen, "are essentially using poor people as human shields to perpetuate a business model that is going to do the most harm to poor people."
It's not the only instance of fossil fuel interests hitching their wagon to this kind of advocacy. Reports show that utilities have long funded Black civil rights leaders; the NAACP in 2020 urged local chapters to stop accepting this funding.
Promotional materials often say the ZNE homes can help lower energy bills.
"Natural gas is really important to the homes we build because it's reliable, predictable and affordable month to month," a representative of the Habitat affiliate in Austin, Texas, said in a 2021 report on environmental, social and governance investments.
In a 2022 call with financial analysts shared with the Guardian by the Energy and Policy Institute, Atmos's CEO, Kevin Akers, said the ZNE homes demonstrated "the value and vital role natural gas plays in helping customers reduce their carbon footprint in a cost-effective manner".
Recent research, however, shows that newer, efficient electric appliances - such as heat pumps and induction stoves - can cost the same amount or even less to run as their gas-powered counterparts, though they can be more expensive to install.
In some cases, utilities are also using customers' money to pay to build the homes. In Mississippi, public utility commission documents shared by the Energy and Policy Institute show Atmos is recovering costs to build the ZNE homes from ratepayers.
Zero-net?
Though the projects are billed "zero-net energy" homes, it is not clear that they are always meeting that goal.
SoCal Gas in 2017 partnered with Habitat for Humanity of Orange county on a ZNE home, and has touted the benefits of "dual-fuel" ZNE homes over all-electric ones, saying customers prefer them.
But a 2021 study funded by SoCalGas and the California Energy Commission comparing two ZNE homes in the city of Stockton - one fully electric model and another home that included both solar panels and gas appliances - seemed to undercut the purported benefits of gas. Researchers found that the all-electric home produced more energy than it used, but the gas-powered model did not achieve ZNE status.
In webinars held last year researchers noted that even when ZNE homes do not achieve "absolute zero", they can still help to promote efficiency.
ZNE homes with gas can meet the zero-net benchmark - in a statement, Atmos said its Habitat homes have done so - and not all fully electric ZNE homes necessarily achieve the goal. Still, Vardi said the SoCal Gas-funded study provided yet more evidence that gas is unnecessary. "There is really no reason to build new construction that is not all electric," he said.
Some Habitat partnerships show that this is possible.
Habitat's affiliate in Cape Cod, Massachusetts, built all-electric homes in partnership with a Cape Cod utility, which in 2021 were the "best-rated" Habitat homes in the nation in terms of efficiency. Another affiliate in Massachusetts's Pioneer Valley built an affordable, all-electric ZNE home that won praise from the federal government.
This year, the federal government announced $2bn for a coalition of non-profits including Habitat for Humanity International and Rewiring America to build fully electric low-income housing.
The costs
The projects began amid a widespread lack of affordable housing in the US. A poll this year found that most US renters believe they will never be able to afford a home, and that a majority live in areas that are so unaffordable that they are "barely livable". Meanwhile, US public housing stock shrank by 25% between 2009 and 2022, according to a recent analysis of federal data by Climate and Community Project.
Habitat depends on financial donations to fund their work, which Aldana Cohen said created the opportunity for "dramatic inconsistency or contradiction, like using affordable housing to prop up the gas industry".
In another example, Habitat International, has accepted donations from the multinational fossil fuel conglomerate Koch Industries.
"When you delegate things to any number of non-profits and for-profit companies, you're far more likely to just get totally self-serving interventions," he said.
"There's no reason to lock a single social policy priority, like affordable housing, into the survival of the fossil fuel industry," he said.
#76
Carbon credit speculators could lose billions as scientific evidence shows many offsets they have bought have no environmental worth and have become stranded assets.
Amid growing evidence that huge numbers of carbon credits do nothing to mitigate global heating and can sometimes be linked to alleged human rights concerns, there is a growing pile of carbon credits equivalent to the annual emissions of Japan, the world's fifth largest polluter, that are unused in the unregulated voluntary market, according to market analysis.
From Apple to Disney, Gucci to Shell, many of the largest companies in the world have used carbon credits for their sustainability efforts from the unregulated voluntary market, which grew to $2bn (£1.6bn) in size in 2021 and saw prices for many carbon credits rise above $20 per offset.
The credits are often generated on the basis they are contributing to climate change mitigation such as stopping tropical deforestation, tree planting and creating renewable energy projects in developing countries. Proponents say they need to massively increase in size and scale to help meet the Paris agreement to limit global heating.
But repeated scandals about their true impact and a crackdown from regulators on claims of "carbon neutrality" have meant that demand and prices for offsetting have slumped, with signs that some carbon credit traders are writing off investments that would have been worth hundreds of millions of dollars as recently as last year.
In the US, the derivatives market regulator has issued a whistleblower alert relating to fraud and misconduct in carbon markets and has created a new environmental fraud taskforce.
"It's currently a buyer's market and buyers are, rightly, prioritising quality. There are over a billion tonnes of issued but not retired credits in the market - this suggests lots of credits can be written off, and there will remain a large supply for buyers to tap into," said Anton Root, head of research at AlliedOffsets, who said buyers were waiting for the final results of initiatives to improve carbon credit quality.
"A correction like that could help to orient the market toward fundamental supply-demand dynamics, which we don't currently tend to see, and drive up the price for credits that are deemed to be above the quality threshold," he added.
Hannah Hauman, a former oil trader who is now global head of carbon trading at Trafigura, the world's largest trader of carbon removal credits, said the current uncertainty was inherent in carbon markets.
"Coming from oil trading, it is strange to see units in carbon markets become invalid overnight. But I think it is in their nature to be constantly evolving with science. It is inherent in the asset class. As much as commodity traders want static, consistent policies for the long term, it is not what the energy transition actually requires. The carbon market needs to be progressive and contracts need to anticipate that," she said.
A new study in the journal Science has found that millions of forest carbon credits approved by Verra, the world's leading certifier, are largely worthless and could make global heating worse if used for offsetting.
The research by scientists and economists at the University of Cambridge and VU Amsterdam was one of the three studies used in a January investigation into rainforest offsets by the Guardian, Die Zeit and Source Material. The Science study was used in a pre-print form while awaiting peer review, which it has since passed.
The analysis, published on Thursday, found that 18 big forest offsetting projects had produced millions of carbon credits based on calculations that greatly inflated their conservation impact. The schemes, which generate credits by avoiding hypothetical deforestation, were found not to reduce forest loss or to reduce it by only small amounts, far less than the huge areas they were claiming to protect, rendering the credits largely hot air.
The findings follow a 2020 study of 12 projects in the Brazilian Amazon by the same group, which found they had a negligible impact on stopping deforestation despite generating credits on the basis they were preventing large areas from being destroyed. A 2022 study of 40 Verra-approved projects led by University of Cambridge researchers found that while some projects did stop deforestation, most stopped none or small amounts.
Verra has strongly disputed the new study's findings but said it welcomed input from the scientific community and recognised there were areas for improvement in the current system. It was in the process of replacing its methodologies for generating credits, which should be released later this year.
"This information is not new. We provided detailed feedback to the pre-publication version of this paper in a January 2023 technical review after it was covered by the media. Our initial analysis of this version indicates that, despite some minor changes, the overall methodology, results, and conclusions are the same - and, therefore, the significant concerns we flagged earlier this year still hold," the group said.
In May, Verra's longtime CEO stood down after concerns about the carbon credits.
The voluntary carbon market had already been experiencing falling prices. Hauman said that if governments could decide what counted as a Paris-compliant credits, that would provide greater certainty.
"The biggest question I get from customers is: where does this uncertainty end? They say they cannot meet their net zero commitment within their own decarbonisation path without carbon credits. One of the things that is going to give us much greater certainty is article 6 of the Paris agreement, which will define Paris-compliant carbon credits for the private sector alongside sovereign actors. We want to see the onus to be on the seller to deliver the agreed quality and that should help buyer confidence a lot," she said.
#77
Countries are ignoring commitments they made less than a year ago to shift away from fossil fuels and to provide aid to those most vulnerable to the climate crisis, a host of leading figures have admitted during a gloomy start to a major climate summit in New York.
Al Gore, the former US vice-president, and John Kerry, the former US secretary of state and climate envoy, have led the condemnation of the largest greenhouse gas emitters, led by China and the US, for failing to follow a UN pact signed in Dubai by nearly 200 countries in December to "transition away" from oil, coal and gas.
"We made an agreement in Dubai to transition away from fossil fuels," said Kerry, who was the US lead climate negotiator at the time. "The problem? We aren't doing that. We're not implementing. The implications for everybody, and life on this planet, is gigantic."
Kerry, who in his previous position defended the US's role as it became the world's leading oil and gas producer under Joe Biden, admitted that the US needed to do more and said a pause placed on booming liquified natural gas export permits by the US president should remain.
"The demand is what is crushing us right now," Kerry said of the surge in gas exports. "I have to tell you all around the world people are falling short or not even trying. In Dubai almost 200 countries agreed to transition away from fossil fuels in a way that's fair, equitable and orderly ... and they [fossil fuel companies] are just plowing ahead, like it's business as usual."
Asked to give oil and gas companies a grade in their efforts to transition to cleaner energy, Kerry said: "Is there a letter underneath Z?"
Kerry was speaking at an Axios event held as part of Climate Week NYC, a summit that has drawn about 100,000 government leaders, businesspeople, scientists and activists to New York alongside the UN general assembly.
The week is taking place amid a daunting backdrop of stubbornly high global emissions, record-breaking temperatures and the real possibility of Donald Trump, who has called climate change a "hoax" and has called for the demolition of Biden's climate policies, again becoming US president in November's election.
Wealthy countries have been handing out new oil and gas exploration leases at record levels despite the agreement at the Cop28 talks in Dubai, with decades of further planet-heating emissions set to be locked in during 2024, itself almost certain to be the hottest ever recorded. "In signing such a surge of new oil and gas licenses, they are signing away our future," António Guterres, secretary general of the UN, said of the highest emitters in July.
"Many people felt it was a great victory to have that language about transitioning away from fossil fuels, I felt that too," said Gore. "But now look at the agenda for this year's Cop and they've completely ignored that.
"The climate crisis is a fossil fuel crisis, the fossil fuel industry is the wealthiest and most powerful industry in the history of the world. They fight ferociously to stop anything that would stop consumption of fossil fuels. They are way better at capturing politicians than emissions."
Gore said there were some optimistic signs ahead of the upcoming Cop29, to be held in Azerbaijan in November, such as the "incredible" levels of investment flowing into renewable energy like solar and wind, primarily in China, but that the pace of the transition must accelerate drastically if the world was to avoid disastrous climate impacts.
A weariness with seemingly endless, fruitless meetings about the climate crisis - there have been annual UN talks on this for nearly 30 years - and a litany of unfulfilled promises is particularly grating for the small island states most vulnerable to the impacts of floods, droughts and heatwaves, despite themselves only emitting minuscule amounts of greenhouse gases.
"I'm tired of talks, I want to see some action," Philip Davis, prime minister of the Bahamas, told the Guardian. "We have been talking about climate change for 29 years now where are we today? For the first time in one whole year we have been over 1.5C - that should shake us. I'm not listening now, I want to see some action, real action."
Davis said that new fossil fuel projects in countries such as the US and UK have flouted the international agreement to move away from polluting energy. "What does that signal, that we are moving away from it?" he said. "So where does the disappointment lie? It should lie with countries like ours, whose emissions are negligible."
Davis said richer countries also "haven't lived up to" promises on climate finance, via either a decade-long pledge to provide billions to developing countries or a more recent agreement, struck in Dubai last year, for a "loss and damage" fund that has so far raised just $800m. "Countries need to recognize $800m isn't enough, trillions are needed and we need to find a way to get there," he said.
It is five years since Hurricane Dorian became the worst storm to ever hit the Bahamas, killing dozens of people and causing $3.4bn in damages, more than the entire annual revenue generated by the archipelago of nearly 700 islands. Scientists have warned that Atlantic hurricanes are becoming fiercer due to a warming ocean and atmosphere.
"When people hear the rain now, sometimes they are traumatized by it," said Davis. "We are still rebuilding and still recovering from the damage and loss from that hurricane. We are in a perpetual cycle of rebuild and recovery. Every year we pray we don't get another hurricane so we have to borrow again, making our debt spiral. It takes away from our ability to develop our country, to deliver social services for our people."
#78
Richer countries and private lenders are trapping heavily indebted countries into reliance on fossil fuels, according to a new report.
The pressure to repay debts is forcing poor nations to continue investing in fossil fuel projects to make their repayments on what are usually loans from richer nations and financial institutions, according to new analysis from the anti-debt campaigners Debt Justice and partners in affected countries.
The group is calling for creditors to cancel all debts for countries facing crisis - and especially those linked to fossil fuel projects.
"High debt levels are a major barrier to phasing out fossil fuels for many global south countries," said Tess Woolfenden, a senior policy officer at Debt Justice. "Many countries are trapped exploiting fossil fuels to generate revenue to repay debt while, at the same time, fossil fuel projects often do not generate the revenues expected and can leave countries further indebted than when they started. This toxic trap must end."
According to the report, the debt owed by global south countries has increased by 150% since 2011 and 54 countries are in a debt crisis, having to spend five times more on repayments than on addressing the climate crisis.
Daniel Ribeiro, a programme coordinator for the Mozambican environmental campaign Justiça Ambiental, said the country's debt burden had been doubled by loans taken without parliament's permission from London-based banks in 2013, based on projections of earnings from its gas field discoveries.
Mozambique was plunged into a debt crisis when oil and gas prices fell in 2014-16, Ribeiro said, but the solutions from international lenders to bail out the country have relied on loans being repaid through future gas revenues.
"The debt caused by fossil fuels are being structured to be paid back by fossil fuels, solidifying a vicious cycle of having to move forward and having very severe consequences of not wanting to continue with fossil fuels," Ribeiro said.
Suriname faced a similar situation after defaulting on its debt, when in 2020 it agreed a deal that would give creditors the right to almost 30% of Suriname's oil revenue until 2050.
Sharda Ganga, the director of the Surinamese civil society group Projekta, said they had hoped the deal would have remained within the country's climate commitments.
Ganga said: "As our debt has grown unsustainable, it dominates all policy decisions and impacts the lives of our citizens in every possible way. Earning money as quickly as possible in order to pay back the creditors is therefore priority number one. It means there is no more room for patience and such pesky things like sustainability or climate justice.
"The reality is that this is the new form of colonialism - we have exchanged one ruler for the rule of our creditors who basically already own what is ours. The difference is this time we signed the deal ourselves."
Leandro Gómez, a campaigner on investment and rights at the Environment and Natural Resources Foundation (Farn) in Argentina, said the country has been stripped of sovereignty to transition away from fossil fuels, and was having to subsidise fossil fuel companies, encourage fracking projects and cancel renewable energy projects.
The report also said many climate-affected countries needed more access to grants to pay for the effects of changing climate, as many are forced further into debt to pay for repairs after cyclones and floods.
Most of the $10bn (£7bn) in financial assistance provided to Pakistan after last year's floods was in the form of loans, while the share of Dominica's debt of its gross domestic product (GDP) rose from 68% to 78% after Hurricane Maria in 2017.
Mae Buenaventura, from the Asian People's Movement on Debt and Development, said: "The climate and debt crises emerged from the same system that is based on the global north's relentless extraction of human, economic and environmental resources to feed the drive for profit and greed."
She said debt cancellation was the least that rich countries and lenders could do.
#79
Australia's federal budget is on-track for a deficit of $26.9bn this financial year and is not projected to return to balance until 2034-35, according to the midyear economic update (Myefo).
On Wednesday the treasurer, Jim Chalmers, and the finance minister, Katy Gallagher, released the update, which breaks Labor's streak of two full-year budget surpluses with a deficit in its third year, albeit one that is $1.3bn smaller than projected in May.
Chalmers and Gallagher said the result is "almost half the $47.1bn deficit we inherited for this year from our predecessors".
The economic statement sets the scene for a 2025 election in which Labor's economic management during high global inflation and both major parties' plans for future cost-of-living relief will be central issues.
On Wednesday, Chalmers played down the prospect of further cost-of-living relief. He said the government would "do more ... if we can afford to", but noted the $5.5bn in the decisions taken but not announced category - which can hide pre-election sweeteners - was "relatively small".
Cumulatively, deficits are $22bn worse over four years, with the deficit projected to increase to $46.9bn in 2025-26, or 1.6% of gross domestic product (GDP), before falling to $38.4bn in 2026-27 and $31.7bn in 2027-28, back down to a deficit of 1% of GDP.
But the midyear update said Australia's budget deficits are better as a share of the economy in every year over the medium term than the pre-election fiscal outlook, the position inherited from the Coalition when Labor was elected in May 2022.
"The underlying cash balance is projected to improve over the medium term, returning to balance by 2034-35," it said.
"Gross debt is expected to stabilise at 36.7% of GDP at 30 June 2027, before declining to 31.4% of GDP by 30 June 2035."
Chalmers said the government had ignored "free advice" from commentators and political opponents "that we should slash and burn and have some kind of austerity budgets", arguing that "would have been diabolical for an economy that is barely growing as it is".
Economic growth in Australia is expected to increase from 1.4% in 2023-24 to 1.75% in 2024-25, and then 2.25% in 2025-26.
However, this is a downgrade on projections contained in May's budget, which forecast growth of 1.75% in 2023-24, then 2% in 2024-25.
The update said that "the impact of higher interest rates, cost-of-living pressures and global economic uncertainty has weighed on the Australian economy more than anticipated".
Chalmers and Gallagher said that "despite the pressures coming at us, we're on track for a soft landing and our budget strategy is helping".
"Our economy is growing, inflation is moderating, real wages are growing, unemployment is low, more than one million new jobs have been created, we're rolling out tax cuts and cost-of-living help to help people doing it tough, and there's now much less debt than when we came to office."
Although prices rose by 3.8% in 2023-24, higher than the 3.5% projected in May, inflation projections are largely unchanged since the May budget. Both the midyear statement and budget project inflation of 2.75% for the next two years.
By contrast, the Reserve Bank projects that headline inflation will increase above 3% for some quarters in 2025-26. Chalmers said the difference was largely "timing" and the price of petrol, not because treasury was accounting for a further round of electricity price relief.
Inflation returned to the RBA's target band for the first time since 2021 in the September quarter 2024, the update said.
"This was supported by the government's cost-of-living relief in the 2024-25 budget, which is expected to directly reduce annual inflation by 0.5% of a percentage point in 2024-25."
The midyear update is pessimistic about the prospects of unemployment remaining low, suggesting that despite an unemployment rate of just 3.9% in November that the proportion of jobless Australians will rise to 4.5% in June.
The midyear update also revised up the rate of net overseas migration from 260,000 projected in the budget to 340,000, in line with experts' expectations due to sluggish growth in departures even while the rate of arrivals slows.
The update reveals a total of $5.5bn spending over four years in "decisions taken but not yet announced" and measures for which the cost is "not for publication".
Commonly used as an inexact metric for the size of an unspent election war-chest, the figure includes confidential sums paid for Aukus nuclear submarines and an undisclosed sum for "enabling a reliable and secure energy transition".
The update reveals the government will provide additional funding of $1.2bn over six years from 2024-25 for the energy grid through recapitalising the Rewiring the Nation program.
The update reveals that in addition to increasing fees for international student fees in July, the government will also increase the visa application charge for temporary graduate visas by 14.75% from 1 February 2025, estimated to increase receipts by $1.7bn over five years.
Before of the release, Labor boasted that it has improved the budget by a cumulative $200bn over the six years to 2027-28 inherited from the Coalition, despite $8.8bn of "unavoidable spending" in the mid-year update and $16.3bn in changes to payments and programs.
Chalmers and Gallagher said the government had done so by returning "78% of upwards revisions to revenue since the election, compared to our predecessors who averaged around 40%".
"Average real spending growth will be 1.5% over the six years to 2027-28, which is less than half the 30-year average and around a third of our predecessors."
#80
Some of the world's most profitable - and most polluting corporations - have invested in carbon offset projects that have fundamental failings and are "probably junk", suggesting industry claims about greenhouse gas reductions were likely overblown, according to new analysis.
Delta, Gucci, Volkswagen, ExxonMobil, Disney, easyJet and Nestlé are among the major corporations to have purchased millions of carbon credits from climate friendly projects that are "likely junk" or worthless when it comes to offsetting their greenhouse gas emissions, according to a classification system developed by Corporate Accountability, a non-profit, transnational corporate watchdog.
Some of these companies no longer use CO2 offsets amid mounting evidence that carbon trading do not lead to the claimed emissions cuts - and in some cases may even cause environmental and social harms.
However, the multibillion-dollar voluntary carbon trading industry is still championed by many corporations including oil and gas majors, airlines, automakers, tourism, fast-food and beverage brands, fashion houses, banks and tech firms as the bedrock of climate action - a way of claiming to reduce their greenhouse gas footprint while continuing to rely on fossil fuels and unsustainable supply chains.
Yet, for 33 of the top 50 corporate buyers, more than a third of their entire offsets portfolio is "likely junk" - suggesting at least some claims about carbon neutrality and emission reductions have been exaggerated according to the analysis. The fundamental failings leading to a "likely junk" ranking include whether emissions cuts would have happened anyway, as is often the case with large hydroelectric dams, or if the emissions were just shifted elsewhere, a common issue in forestry offset projects.
"These findings add to the mounting evidence that peels back the greenwashed facade of the voluntary carbon market and lays bare the ways it dangerously distracts from the real, lasting action the world's largest corporations and polluters need to be taking," said Rachel Rose Jackson, Corporate Accountability's director of research.
The fossil fuel industry is by far the largest investor in the world's most popular 50 CO2 offsetting schemes. At least 43% of the 81m CO2 credits purchased by the oil and gas majors are for projects that have at least one fundamental flaw and are "probably junk", according to the analysis.
The transport industry, which accounts for about a fifth of all global planet-warming emissions, has also relied heavily on carbon offsetting projects to meet climate goals. Just over 42% of the total credits (55m) purchased by airlines and 38% purchased by automakers (21m) for the top 50 projects are likely worthless at reducing emissions, the analysis found.
The new analysis, shared with the Guardian, builds on a joint investigation last year into the top 50 CO2 offset projects - those that have sold the most carbon credits in the global market. The vast majority of the most popular 50 offset projects were classified as likely or potentially junk due to one or more fundamental failing that undermines its promised emission cut, according to the criteria and classification system applied to the analyses.
The top 50 projects include forestry schemes, hydroelectric dams, solar and wind farms, waste disposal and greener household appliances schemes across 20 (mostly) developing countries, according to data from AlliedOffsets, the most comprehensive emissions trading database, which tracks projects from inception. They account for almost a third of the entire global voluntary carbon market (VCM), suggesting that junk or overvalued carbon credits that exaggerate emission reduction benefits could be the norm.
The VCM industry works by carbon credits being tradable "allowances" or certificates that allows the purchaser to offset 1 ton of carbon dioxide or the equivalent in greenhouse gasses by investing in environmental projects anywhere in the world that claim to reduce carbon emissions.
Climate experts say that the carbon trading market has failed to produce the promised planetary benefits, delayed the transition away from oil, gas and coal, and caused harm to forests and communities in developing countries where most offset projects are located.
On Tuesday, the Biden administration published new guidelines on responsible participation in VCMs which they say will drive credible and ambitious climate action. But critics argue that offsets are fundamentally flawed.
"Overall, carbon offsets are, according to most expert analyses, neither credible nor scalable to the urgency and scale of the carbon dioxide problem," said Richard Heede, co-director of the Climate Accountability Institute, a nonprofit research and education group.
"This report documents the prevalence of 'worthless' or 'likely junk' carbon offsets in the global Voluntary Carbon Market, and undermines the corporate rationale for claiming emissions reductions based on such credits," Heede added.
Oil and gas majors are among the largest corporate buyers of likely junk offsets. Almost half (49%) the 3.7m carbon credits purchased by ExxonMobil are for two projects classified as likely junk or worthless. Internal company documents show that scientists at Exxon, which is one of the world's worst greenhouse gas emitters, were accurately predicting the impact of fossil fuels on the climate in the 1970s.
A spokesperson for ExxonMobil said: "Carbon offsets are a viable way to [reduce emissions and reach net zero], which is why we continue to evaluate them. We're working to verify the claims cited in this analysis."
With the exception of fossil fuel firms, Delta has purchased more carbon credits than any other corporation. Just over 35% of the 41m carbon credits purchased by Delta were from 11 offset projects which are likely worthless or junk, according to Corporate Accountability.
In California, a 2023 civil class-action alleged that Delta misrepresented itself as carbon-neutral as the company's reliance on the carbon trading market renders its climate friendly representations as false and misleading. The judge reduced the scope of the lawsuit last month after Delta rejected the allegations and filed a motion to dismiss. The case continues.
A spokesperson said the company is investing in sustainable aviation fuel, more fuel-efficient aircraft and reducing fuel use through operational efficiencies in a bid to reach "net zero" by 2050. "We have shifted away from carbon neutrality and offsets."
Meanwhile almost 72% of the 11m carbon credits ever purchased by easyJet, a popular low-cost European airline, were for projects classified as likely junk. In 2022, the airline announced plans to transition away from offsetting in favor of a "roadmap to net zero" emissions by 2050 through more fuel-efficient aircraft and perational efficiencies as well as sustainable aviation fuel and carbon capture and storage - technologies which scientists have warned could exacerbate the climate crisis.
An easyJet spokesperson said: "In the short period we did offset customer emissions, we had robust due diligence processes in place, with all projects recommended by expert partners and all required to meet the highest standards available."
A 2021 joint investigation by the Guardian revealed that major airlines including Delta and easyJet were using unreliable "phantom" carbon credits to claim their flights were carbon neutral.
Car makers, entertainment giants, luxury goods
Almost half (46%) of the 11m CO2 credits purchased by Volkswagen from the top 50 projects were likely junk, according to the analysis. The German carmaker recently announced a joint venture to develop its own carbon credit projects and said they increasingly rely on on-site inspections, due diligence and audit processes to verify projects. VW aims to reduce its emissions by 90% compared to 2018 by converting its energy supply and increasing energy efficiency among other measures.
In the world of entertainment, almost 62% of the 5.8m carbon credits retired by Disney are from two offset projects which have been classified as likely junk or worthless.
The analysis also found that 75% of the 4.4m carbon credits purchased by the Italian luxury fashion house Gucci have been for projects classified as likely junk. Gucci, which was once a high-profile proponent of offsetting, last year dropped its carbon neutral claim amid growing evidence that the rainforest projects it relied on were likely junk and potentially harmful. Gucci is finalizing new climate commitments with a greater focus on cutting absolute emissions through its supply chain.
The food and drinks industry is a major climate polluter - and investor in carbon markets, with 37% of the industry-wide credits purchased from projects classified as likely junk.
Food and drinks industry
The analysis found that almost 36% of the 2.2m carbon credits purchased by Nestlé, the world's largest food and beverage company, were from five offset projects which have been classified as likely junk. Nestlé said that it stopped purchasing credits from these projects in 2021/2022. "Reaching net zero emissions at Nestlé does not involve using offsetting: we focus on GHG emissions reductions and removals within our value chain to reach our net zero ambition."
While some corporations have signaled a shift away from carbon offsetting, the VCM is still valued between $2 and $3bn - despite warnings that the industry is a false solution delaying the world's transition away from oil, gas and coal.
"This research once again shows that big corporate polluters claiming climate credentials are the main buyers of junk credits. But racking up carbon credits doesn't make you a climate leader. Cutting fossil fuels does. We can't offset our way to a safe climate future," said Erika Lennon, senior attorney at the Centre for International Environmental Law (Ciel).
"For all the talk about carbon credits accelerating climate action, they are actually greenwashing climate destruction."
#81
The UK's announcement of an 81% emissions cut below 1990 levels by 2035 shows the Australian government should set an ambitious climate target that will quickly drive investment and create clean industries, experts say.
The UK prime minister, Keir Starmer, was praised by campaigners and experts after confirming the pledge at the Cop29 UN climate summit in Azerbaijan, though they said it would need to be backed by clear plans. The UK is one of the first larger countries to announce a 2035 target before a UN deadline next February.
The UK target translates to a 78% cut below 2005 levels, the benchmark against which Australia measures its climate goals.
The Albanese government has delayed announcing its target, possibly until after the next federal election, saying it is waiting for a recommendation from the Climate Change Authority. The authority chair, Matt Kean, says its advice has been pushed back to consider the ramifications of Donald Trump - a climate denier - winning the US presidential election.
Initial advice from the authority earlier this year suggested a target of at least 65% and up to 75% would be ambitious, but achievable.
Kean told the ABC on Wednesday it was good to see high ambition from the UK because it would focus "everyone's attention on what's possible".
Erwin Jackson, policy director with the Investor Group on Climate Change, said Australia should follow the UK - which accepted a recommendation from that country's Climate Change Committee - in tying its target to independent advice.
He said Australia was better placed than many other countries to cut greenhouse gas emissions at relatively low cost as it still used a lot of coal and that could largely be replaced with renewable energy.
"The UK and Australia are different economies," he said. "Australia is blessed with some of the world's best and cheapest renewable energy resources and any target we put forward needs to be making sure we're taking advantage of that considerable advantage and going to the highest possible ambition."
Jackson said people often viewed a climate target as an abstract commitment, but it mattered because it was "essentially an investment signal". "The fundamental point is if you want to be prosperous as an economy you have to have a strong target because if you don't investors will take their capital elsewhere," he said.
Alison Reeve, the Grattan Institute's deputy energy and climate change program director and previously a public servant working on climate policy, said the UK differed from Australia, in part because it has lost a lot of heavy industry.
She said it could be harder for the UK to make deeper emissions cuts than Australia in parts of its economy because its climate was colder, its housing stock was older and it was more reliant on gas for heating.
Reeve said an important point that some in Australia had yet to grasp was that it could not be a fossil fuel economy and a renewable energy superpower at the same time because "being a renewable energy superpower relies on its customers stopping buying fossil fuels".
She said emissions reduction targets were "as much about ambition for what the future economy will look like" as the number. "Maybe the UK has grasped that upside - that it's also about creating new industries and capitalising on the transition," she said.
The Greens and teal independent MPs have urged the major parties to announce 2035 targets before the election. Several called for at least a 75% cut by 2035 to protect the environment and the economy.
Amanda McKenzie, the chief executive of the Climate Council, said the UK's commitment showed action to cut emissions was in the national interest of countries across the globe.
She said the council's scientific analysis found Australia should be reaching net zero emissions by 2035, and the world should reach this mark by 2040, if it was to meet the Paris agreement goal of limiting global heating to well below 2C since pre-industrial times. She said it would require Australia cutting emissions by 75% by 2030. "The lion's share of effort has to happen this decade," McKenzie said.
The few countries to announce 2035 commitments at Cop29 include Brazil, the host of next year's Cop30 summit. It set an emissions reduction target of between 59% and 67% compared with 2005 levels.
Brazil is one of the world's 10 top emitters, but as a developing country is not expected to act as rapidly as wealthy nations. Campaigners said its plan was an improvement, but that more detail and deeper cuts were needed.
An Australian government spokesperson said there was a process to setting UN climate commitments - known as nationally determined contributions, or NDCs - that included receiving advice from the Climate Change Authority.
"We're on track for our 2030 targets and we'll set 2035 targets that are in the best interest of Australia," they said. "Those targets will be ambitious, but achievable."


The spokesperson contrasted the government's position with the opposition leader, Peter Dutton, who has said he would abolish Labor's 2030 target (a 43% cut) - a position that would put Australia at odds with the Paris agreement - and not announce a replacement 2030 target or a 2035 target before the election.
Coalition plans include slowing the rollout of large-scale renewable energy, extending the life of ageing coal plants and supporting more gas-fired power while it develops a plan to eventually build publicly owned nuclear generators. It says it could do this by 2037, but experts say creating a nuclear industry would take until after 2040.
The government announced on Wednesday it would support international climate action in the region by guaranteeing up to US$200m for the Asian Development Bank to lend to Pacific and south-east Asian countries. It said it would enable the bank to make more than US$900m in additional loans for climate mitigation and adaptation projects.
Climate finance - both setting a new global goal to help poor countries and working out how to reach it - is a central focus of the Cop29 summit. Developing countries want guarantees of US$1tn a year in funds by 2035 to help them cut emissions and adapt to worsening extreme weather.
#82
The continued destruction of nature across the planet will result in major shocks to food supplies and safe water, the disappearance of unique species and the loss of landscapes central to human culture and leisure by the middle of this century, experts have warned.
By 2050, if humanity does not follow through on commitments to tackle the five main drivers of nature loss critical natural systems could break down just as the human population is projected to peak.
The Guardian asked leading scientists, Indigenous leaders and conservationists around the world about the consequences of inaction on biodiversity loss by the middle of this century. Despite 1 million plant and animal species at risk of extinction, and in the face of wildfires, floods and extreme weather intensifying due to the climate crisis, nature conservation is increasingly becoming a part of the culture wars raging in many countries, which have spurred opposition to many environmental policies.
Not taking action by the middle of the century may result in extinctions, the rapid spread of invasive species (often bringing new diseases), plastic pollution on a vast scale, crashing fish populations and disappearing forests, experts from every continent have warned.
More than a quarter of all plant and animal species that have had in-depth conservation assessments are at risk of extinction, according to the IUCN red list.
"It fills me with pain to watch the never-ending destruction of natural ecosystems in my home country - Brazil," said Alexandre Antonelli, director of science at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. "From the Amazonian and Atlantic rainforests to the Cerrado shrublands, trees that are home to myriad insects and orchids, soils teeming with fungi and micro-organisms, and land that jaguars and toucans inhabited for millennia are being brutally lost. The drivers of biodiversity loss are real, and there for anyone to see. Science provides powerful solutions, but time is running out."
To counteract the potential loss, research indicates humanity must work to restore nature across the planet, adopt more environmentally friendly farming practices, reduce meat consumption, stop the spread of invasive species and dramatically cut the use of fossil fuels.
At the Cop15 biodiversity summit last December, governments agreed on 23 targets, including the restoration of 30% of the planet's degraded terrestrial, inland water, coastal and marine ecosystems. So far, governments have never met any of their self-imposed targets on nature loss, and experts say that must change urgently.
'One word: desert'
Sandra Myrna Díaz, an Argentinian biologist who co-chaired the 2019 IPBES assessment of the state of the planet, said: "Over the past 50 years, the most significant driver of biodiversity decline has been, by far, land-use change.
"If these trends continue in the next decades, soil health is likely to deteriorate further due to erosion by intensive annual cropping, [with] pollution by biocides and salinisation. The proportion of nature in direct contact with the wider public will continue shrinking."
Humanity has cleared about a third of all forests for farming over the past 10,000 years, researchers estimate, destroying key ecosystems such as tropical rainforests, which are among the most biodiverse on the planet.
But experts warn that unique arid landscapes are also at risk. Emma Archer, a professor of geography and environmental science at the University of Pretoria, said: "South Africa's Karoo landscape is changing, shaped by changing farming systems, increased investments in mining and renewable energy, and by climate change.
"Unless we better understand and address how these different factors are interacting to impact this precious biodiverse landscape - including one of the most biodiverse desert ecosystems in the world - the outcomes will be severe."
The consequences of land-use change are often interlinked with other drivers of biodiversity loss, warns Cristiane Julião, from the Brazilian Amazon's Indigenous Pankararu people. "If we do not take the necessary actions to conserve biodiversity, the world's future and that of our people can be described in one word: desert.
"The Brazilian Amazon, where my people live, would become a desert if the global economic system continues to prioritise exploitation and profit over the health of our planet and people. If we don't shift the current course of development now, it will be the end of our knowledge, practices and traditions that animals, plants and the climate depend on."
Invasive species on the march
Last month, an expert UN assessment warned that invasive species had become a multibillion-dollar problem, which is expected to worsen without action on conservation. At least 3,500 harmful invasive species have been recorded globally, spread by human travel and trade, and they are playing an increased role in natural disasters such as August's deadly wildfires in Hawaii.
Aníbal Pauchard, professor of forest science at the University of Concepción, who helped lead the expert UN assessment, said that without action, by 2050 Chile "will have lost its ecological uniqueness and will be less suitable for nature and people." About a quarter of Chile's biodiversity is not found anywhere else on Earth due to natural barriers including the Atacama desert, the Andes and the Pacific Ocean.
Invasive species have become a threat to that, Pauchard said. "Overabundant invasive alien species ... will have replaced the unique local ecosystems, causing some native species, especially those endemic to Chile, to go extinct, and others strongly reduced in their numbers."
Hanno Seebens, from the Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre in Frankfurt, said the warming climate and spread of invasive species could see disease-carrying animals reach new ecosystems in Europe. "Continuing warming due to climate change will allow disease-transmitting species such as the Tiger mosquito ... to spread across Europe."
If nothing changed, Seebens said, the number of invasive species in Europe is expected to double by 2050.
In North America, without increased biosecurity measures, invasive species will threaten human health, native biodiversity and the economy, warned Prof Peter Stoett, who co-chaired the UN assessment on invasive species, which took place over more than four years.
"Invasive grasses will continue to contribute to combustion and forest fires; coastal invasions will further threaten fisheries; climate change is probably going to expand the northward range of zebra mussels and other invaders in the Great Lakes, and there are special concerns about the vulnerability of the Arctic in general," he said. "This entire ecosystem will change without intensification of control efforts."
'Global cooperation is crucial'
Researchers estimate that humans would need 1.7 planet Earths to sustain the current rate of consumption. With more resources required for the green-energy transition, experts say mining firms need to find new extraction methods that minimise damage to nature.
Dr Charles Barber, senior biodiversity adviser at the World Resources Institute (WRI), said: "The boom in mining for the green-energy transition will send miners into the last biodiversity refuges over the next 25 years. Those minerals will get dug up, and we need them. To avoid a biodiversity catastrophe, we need to develop ways to mine far different from the environmentally and socially destructive methods of yesterday and today."
Unai Pascual, from the Basque Centre for Climate Change, said population growth and urbanisation would put further strain on demand for resources if not managed properly, adding that proper management should ensure there was space for nature in urban areas.
Pascual said: "More than two-thirds of the projected population of 10 billion people will live in cities by 2050. This will increase the energy requirements to manage the growing complexity of urban metabolism. Cities will also increase demand for the extraction of natural resources ... with dire risks for the health of ecosystems. A growing share of the population will disconnect from nature, both physically and psychologically.
"If we do not act effectively now to protect and enhance urban biodiversity," Pascual added, "we will likely see more severe human suffering, especially by the world's most vulnerable urban inhabitants."
After decades of overfishing of key species for human consumption, the collapse of fisheries is highlighted as a threat by several experts, especially given the risks from global heating. Dr Jean-Marc Fromentin, from the marine protection body UMR Marbec, said: "Without decisive action, the ocean's productivity and consequently the world fish catch is set to decline sharply due to seawater warming and acidification caused by climate change.
"This decline will be especially severe in tropical oceans, where wild fish are essential to the food security of local coastal communities," he said.
Surangel Whipps Jr, president of the Pacific country of Palau and co-chair of the High Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy, said the world could learn from his country's customs: "Palau's bul tradition, a sustainable practice of pausing fishing to replenish stocks, has nourished our generations.
"Global cooperation is crucial," he said. "Sustainability measures within our exclusive economic zone alone can't guarantee the world's ability to provide food, air and water."
'Groundwater that can never be cleaned'
The buildup of plastics, chemicals, pesticides and fertilisers in natural ecosystems is highlighted as a threat to biodiversity that demands immediate action, experts say. Dr Marcus Eriksen, co-founder of the 5 Gyres Institute, which works to reduce plastic pollution, said action was vital to avoid flooding key ecosystems with more waste.
"When we published our global estimate of microplastic in the world's oceans, averaging 170tn particles, we also discovered an alarming and increasing trend. This number would easily quadruple by 2050, likely exceeding the capacity of Earth systems to deal with that level of pollution," he said.
"This underscores the importance of a strong UN global treaty on plastic pollution, which is being debated now. We cannot recycle our way out of this mess."
Federico Maggi from the University of Sydney, said: "On the world's crops and fields, about 3m tonnes of pesticides are used every year to control unwanted plants, fungi and bacteria. Of this amount applied in fields, 82% is biodegraded to simpler molecules currently not fully characterised for their environmental and biodiversity effects. Of the remainder, 10% stays in the soil, while 8% leaches to aquifers."
The pesticide residues that remain maintain their essential function, he said, "hence reducing biodiversity wherever they are transported ... reducing earthworm populations, amphibians, pollinators and many other non-target organisms".
James Dalton, director of the IUCN global water programme, said the impact of human pollution was also being seen underground, in the world's groundwater. "We use [water] and often don't put it back where it came from, meaning we don't recharge the groundwater with any excess water we took out and didn't use," he said.
"The water we use, we pollute, and some of those pollutants go back into the ground. This then slowly infiltrates into our future water supply - sometimes permanently. In the US, they have polluted groundwater that can never be cleaned (think Erin Brockovich).
"The future holds difficult choices," he said. He called for: "far better regulation of groundwater use; far, far stricter controls on pollutants and monitoring of pollutants; leaving some areas of the planet free from development on the land to protect the water resources underneath."
Sri Lankan navy personnel try to clear 'nurdles' - tiny plastic pellets used in industry - that washed ashore from a crippled cargo vessel off Colombo in 2021. A UN report called it the 'single largest plastic spill' in history. Photograph: Chamila Karunarathne/EPA
'Huge shift in marine ecosystems'
While climate change poses a direct threat to humanity, it also presents a major threat to swathes of life on Earth, often in unforeseen ways, warn researchers. Henry Häkkinen, a post-doctoral fellow at ZSL's Institute of Zoology, said: "Seabirds in Europe already face a lot of problems - invasive predators, entanglement with fishing gear, and avian influenza severely threaten their populations, among many other threats. But now our seas are warming up, and this is causing a huge shift in how marine ecosystems function. Many seabirds rely on these cold-water species, especially during the breeding season, and if their food disappears, so too will the seabirds."
Juan Lucas Restrepo, director general of Alliance of Bioversity International, warned that the climate crisis could present a major challenge to future food supplies in south Asia. "Climate change will continue to be a major driver of changes of [south Asian] ecosystems in the coming decades.
"Rising temperatures, prolonged droughts and extreme climate events are already modifying the natural habitat where many crop species grow ... with negative impacts on yields and food security.
"This is a huge threat to environmental, social and economic sustainability in the region. If this trend continues, it will limit food availability and increase food prices, resulting in rising undernourishment."
Susan Chomba, director of vital landscapes for Africa at the WRI, said navigating the threats posed by the climate crisis in Africa and its ecosystems would have international consequences. "The world can't solve the hunger crisis, nor the climate crisis, without Africa.

"But today we're facing a perfect storm: almost 60% of the continent's arable land is degraded. Over 280 million Africans face hunger. Climate-driven droughts and cyclones are wiping out development gains made in the past decades. Staying on this path will hurt countries' economies and decimate one of our biggest carbon sinks, the Congo basin."
Chomba concluded: "Hope lies in the 33 million smallholder farmers who produce over 70% of the food for the continent and export. From Niger to Kenya, these farmers are making major leaps, restoring degraded land into productive farms that grow healthy foods that are rich in biodiversity and are major carbon sinks. Throughout Africa, we're seeing hope for a new path."
#83
The joint venture partner in Australia's largest lithium mine is reducing production of the important battery mineral, and halting one of its nickel operations, as plunging prices threaten to overwhelm a sector crucial to the electrification of the automotive industry.
Perth-based IGO has confirmed production cuts to its Greenbushes operations, located near the tiny West Australian timber and mining town the mine is named after, because of subdued demand for battery-grade lithium chemicals.
The miner also announced on Wednesday it would halt production at its Cosmos nickel project, also in WA, in the face of deteriorating prices.
 "The rapid deterioration of the nickel price over the last six months has meant it would not be prudent for us to continue with the project at this time," IGO's chief executive, Ivan Vella, told analysts on Wednesday.
"Times like this are very tough for our people. And we're working hard to redeploy as many of our people as possible."
Vella said while the long-term outlook for lithium was strong, the miner had to be prudent given current prices.
"The market is still very uncertain at this point," he said.
The decision to reduce production of battery minerals by a well-established and comparatively low-cost miner shows how the crash in battery mineral commodities is washing through the resources sector, and denting national aspirations to profit from the global transition to electric vehicles.
Since late 2022, lithium prices have fallen more than 80%, while nickel is down by 40%, according to benchmark prices. Cobalt, another battery mineral, has lost 40% of its value.
Australia's mining sector has started discussions with government representatives about potential tax credits, royalty relief and emergency funding plans, designed to keep some of the smaller miners afloat.
The price falls have been blamed on an oversupply of battery minerals, caused by a rush by miners to profit from the rise of EVs. While EV demand continues to grow, sales appetite has lagged projections, creating a supply and demand imbalance.
The timeline for price parity between mass market EVs and petrol equivalents was also pushed back after Covid 19-related disruptions struck the automotive sector, delaying the planned overhaul of factories to boost EV numbers.
The delay in price parity has subdued sales, with inflation-hit consumers looking for cheaper vehicles.
Mineral outlook
The outlook for nickel is clouded by the rise of rival mining jurisdictions, including Indonesia, that are extracting the battery mineral at lower costs, threatening to dampen prices over the longer term.
In response, IGO's Cosmos mine will join First Quantum Mineral's Ravensthorpe nickel and cobalt mine, also in WA, and Andrew Forrest's Wyloo Metals in shutting nickel operations.
But Australia retains its standing as the world's dominant lithium producer, and analysts expect prices to eventually recover. Unlike nickel, there is no imminent threat of new jurisdictions displacing Australian production.
This week, IGO downgraded its guidance from Greenbushes after disclosing that sales will be about 20% lower than production for the current six-month period.
Greenbushes, one of the most lucrative lithium mines in the world, is 51%-owned by a joint venture of IGO and Chinese company Tianqi. The remaining stake is controlled by New York-listed Albemarle, a large chemicals manufacturer.
Seth Goldstein, a US Morningstar analyst, said production cuts and delays to new lithium supplies out of Australia could have a large effect on global supplies, especially as demand recovers.
"While I don't think cuts are needed for prices to rise, they will likely lead to a faster recovery," he told Guardian Australia.
Goldstein said he expected the lithium market to "swing to undersupply" as EV sales rose.
"I think lithium prices will rise in 2024, especially in the second half of the year," he said.
#84
Australia's aspirations to profit from global demand for electric vehicles are taking a hit thanks to a price crash for crucial battery minerals, such as lithium and nickel
The joint venture partner in Australia's largest lithium mine is reducing production of the important battery mineral, and halting one of its nickel operations, as plunging prices threaten to overwhelm a sector crucial to the electrification of the automotive industry.
Perth-based IGO has confirmed production cuts to its Greenbushes operations, located near the tiny West Australian timber and mining town the mine is named after, because of subdued demand for battery-grade lithium chemicals.
The miner also announced on Wednesday it would halt production at its Cosmos nickel project, also in WA, in the face of deteriorating prices.
 "The rapid deterioration of the nickel price over the last six months has meant it would not be prudent for us to continue with the project at this time," IGO's chief executive, Ivan Vella, told analysts on Wednesday.
"Times like this are very tough for our people. And we're working hard to redeploy as many of our people as possible."
Vella said while the long-term outlook for lithium was strong, the miner had to be prudent given current prices.
"The market is still very uncertain at this point," he said.
The decision to reduce production of battery minerals by a well-established and comparatively low-cost miner shows how the crash in battery mineral commodities is washing through the resources sector, and denting national aspirations to profit from the global transition to electric vehicles.
Since late 2022, lithium prices have fallen more than 80%, while nickel is down by 40%, according to benchmark prices. Cobalt, another battery mineral, has lost 40% of its value.
Australia's mining sector has started discussions with government representatives about potential tax credits, royalty relief and emergency funding plans, designed to keep some of the smaller miners afloat.
The price falls have been blamed on an oversupply of battery minerals, caused by a rush by miners to profit from the rise of EVs. While EV demand continues to grow, sales appetite has lagged projections, creating a supply and demand imbalance.
The timeline for price parity between mass market EVs and petrol equivalents was also pushed back after Covid 19-related disruptions struck the automotive sector, delaying the planned overhaul of factories to boost EV numbers.
The delay in price parity has subdued sales, with inflation-hit consumers looking for cheaper vehicles.
Mineral outlook
The outlook for nickel is clouded by the rise of rival mining jurisdictions, including Indonesia, that are extracting the battery mineral at lower costs, threatening to dampen prices over the longer term.
In response, IGO's Cosmos mine will join First Quantum Mineral's Ravensthorpe nickel and cobalt mine, also in WA, and Andrew Forrest's Wyloo Metals in shutting nickel operations.
But Australia retains its standing as the world's dominant lithium producer, and analysts expect prices to eventually recover. Unlike nickel, there is no imminent threat of new jurisdictions displacing Australian production.
This week, IGO downgraded its guidance from Greenbushes after disclosing that sales will be about 20% lower than production for the current six-month period.
Greenbushes, one of the most lucrative lithium mines in the world, is 51%-owned by a joint venture of IGO and Chinese company Tianqi. The remaining stake is controlled by New York-listed Albemarle, a large chemicals manufacturer.
Seth Goldstein, a US Morningstar analyst, said production cuts and delays to new lithium supplies out of Australia could have a large effect on global supplies, especially as demand recovers.
"While I don't think cuts are needed for prices to rise, they will likely lead to a faster recovery," he told Guardian Australia.
Goldstein said he expected the lithium market to "swing to undersupply" as EV sales rose.
"I think lithium prices will rise in 2024, especially in the second half of the year," he said.
#85
Shell's board faces a shareholder rebellion as large investors including the UK's biggest pension scheme prepare to back a climate activist resolution.
Twenty-seven investors have agreed to back a resolution filed by the Dutch shareholder activists at Follow This that calls for the oil company to align its medium-term emissions reduction targets with the 2015 Paris agreement.
The investor coalition together owns about 5% of Shell's shares and includes the government-backed National Employment Savings Trust (Nest), which manages the pensions of almost a quarter of the UK's workers.
The resolution has also won the backing of the French asset management firm Amundi, which holds almost €2tn (£1.7tn) in assets, as well as Candriam, Scottish Widows, and Rathbones Group.
Diandra Soobiah, the head of responsible investment at Nest, said: "We urge Shell to set a credible scope 3 absolute emissions target. This would demonstrate leadership, show Shell is serious about transitioning its business, and play a role in generating real world change."
"Scope 3" emissions include all greenhouse gas emissions that companies do not either generate directly or purchase for their own energy needs. This extends to everything from raw materials used to create a product to the transportation that delivers that product to a consumer.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on the resolution at the £160bn company's annual general meeting in May. The resolution has already received the backing of investors who together hold about €4tn in assets under management, and support is expected to grow over the months before Shell's annual general meeting, according to Mark van Baal, the founder of Follow This.
Van Baal said: "This escalation of 27 leading investors puts the call for emissions reductions by energy companies front and centre for all institutional investors."
Follow This has gained support for its climate campaign in recent years, although the group has yet to win a majority vote in favour of its resolutions. Its latest shareholder resolution has dropped a reference to 2030 in response to criticism from Shell that its demands are too proscriptive.
Shell is expected to face growing opposition from ethical investors and climate activists after abandoning its plans to reduce its oil and gas production before the end of the decade.
The company's AGM in London last year descended into chaos as climate protests delayed the start of the meeting by an hour, after the board rejected shareholder calls for new targets for carbon emissions cuts.
A Shell spokesperson said: "The 2024 resolution from Follow This is broadly unchanged from their 2023 submission, which was rejected by shareholders (as its variations have been every year since first being submitted in 2016).
"Shell's board has previously advised shareholders that the Follow This resolution was unrealistic and simplistic, that it would have no impact on mitigating climate change, have negative consequences for our customers, and was against the interests of the company and our shareholders."
#86
Mian Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif, Prime Minister of Pakistan, has joined a chorus of leaders using their speeches to call for more money to reach their climate goals - and specifying that they need grants rather than loans that saddle them with more debt.

"Without climate justice, there can be no real resilience," he said. "I wouldn't want other countries to face the fight Pakistan faced in 2022."

Pakistan was devastated by floods two years ago, shortly before Cop27. The disaster added a sense of urgency to that year's negotiations that helped pressure rich countries to set up a fund to pay for the losses and damages borne by poor countries. (You can read more on that from my colleague Nina Lakhani here.)

"Two years, I warned at the top of my voice that the future would never forgive our inaction," said Sharif. "Today, I echo the same warning with greater urgency and fullest energy at my command."
#87
Planned gas developments on Western Australia's Burrup Hub led by Woodside Energy could result in twice as much greenhouse gas being emitted as any other Australian fossil fuel development up for approval, according to an analysis by environment groups.
The analysis led by Greenpeace estimated the Burrup Hub expansion could lead to 6.1bn tonnes of CO2 across the decades ahead if fully developed - roughly 13 times what Australia emits annually. Most of the emissions would be released when the gas was sold and burned overseas.
The scale of the development plans - including opening the proposed Scarborough and Browse gas fields and extending the life of Woodside Energy's North West Shelf liquified natural gas (LNG) processing plant until 2070 - was the focus of a Monday meeting in Canberra between independent, Labor and Greens MPs and WA climate campaigners.
The roundtable discussion in federal parliament follows the WA government substantially increasing its rhetorical support for gas industry expansion.
The premier, Roger Cook, told an energy transition summit earlier this month more WA gas could lead to emissions increasing in the state in the short-term but that would be good for the planet as it would lead to a "dramatic reduction" in global emissions by displacing coal overseas. The claim has not been backed by evidence.
The proposed expansion has also been publicly backed by the federal government. The resources minister, Madeleine King, said the Browse gas field was "important to the future gas supply of Western Australia and our regional partners".
Federal independent WA MP Kate Chaney, who co-hosted the roundtable with Labor backbencher Josh Wilson, said politicians should understand the "sheer scale" of what was planned on the Burrup Hub and what it meant for emissions.
"It really is pretty extraordinary," she said. "It dwarfs anything else in this space and I struggle to see how we can reach our federal emissions reduction targets if it keeps expanding gas like this."
Chaney said she was concerned WA's strong support for gas expansion risked creating "stranded assets" - the International Energy Agency has forecast demand for coal, oil and gas could peak this decade - and that there would also be an opportunity cost if the state directed limited resources and equipment to fossil fuel developments at the expense of renewable energy and critical minerals.
She said the federal environment minister, Tanya Plibersek, should assess the full impact of the North West Shelf expansion given its national importance.
Wilson, the member for Fremantle, said he supported efforts "in the cause of environmental and climate protection", especially when it raised awareness "about the precious and fragile treasures" in WA.
"As we work to strengthen Australia's protective frameworks we should lean our weight towards protective outcomes because we know that up to now the balance in decision-making has too often been struck against the environment and against Aboriginal heritage," he said.
The proposed North West Shelf processing facility life extension sits with the WA appeals convenor, which will make a recommendation to the state government. The WA Environment Protection Authority last year recommended it be approved.
The project also needs federal approval. The federal environment said it had paused its assessment of the North West Shelf project extension until it received further information from the proponent.
That consideration is running alongside calls from gas industry leaders for legal changes to allow faster approval of offshore gas developments, and to reduce the possibility of successful court challenges. Work on Woodside's $16.5bn Scarborough gas field and Santos' $6bn Barossa gas development has been delayed after the federal court found the companies had not properly consulted with traditional owners.
King told the WA summit earlier this month she understood the gas industry's concerns and the government was working "to address these issues", but the sector must "do better" on consultation and should acknowledge it had also repeatedly delayed major investment decisions.
She said if Australia stopped supplying LNG to its neighbours it did not necessarily mean that they would stop using it.
#88
With a sweeping legislative proposal, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Bernie Sanders are attempting to place public housing at the center of the green energy transition, tackling the twin crises of global warming and soaring housing costs.
"Public housing should be the gold standard for affordable, environmentally friendly, and safe communities," Ocasio-Cortez said in an email. "This bill is how we ensure that."
The Green New Deal for Public Housing aims to decarbonize all of the nation's public housing units - and build more of them - with an investment of between $162bn and $234bn over the next decade. In doing so, it would avert 5.7m tons of greenhouse gas emissions, the equivalent of removing 1.26m cars from US roads each year, while creating jobs and public health benefits.
The proposal is co-sponsored by a slew of other progressive lawmakers and supported by dozens of environmental groups, housing justice organizations and labor unions.
"We are going to provide decent-quality, affordable housing for millions of Americans, and at the same time, we're going to create good-paying union jobs," said Sanders at a Thursday press conference. "That is a win, win, win situation."
It is not likely to pass, but supporters say it can help build support for the vision.
The bill's reintroduction comes as the nation faces an unprecedented shortage of affordable housing. In 2022, a record half of US renters spent more than 30% of their incomes on rent, a January report from Harvard University found - and more than half of these "rent-burdened" Americans gave more than 50% of their earnings to the landlord.
Public housing remains an affordable option that 1.7 million Americans rely on. But amid a chronic lack of investment, it is often allowed to fall into disrepair, creating a maintenance backlog of $70bn.
In the absence of funds to mend these units, they are often demolished or privatized instead. As a result, the US public housing stock shrunk from 1.2m units to just over 900,000 between 2009 and 2022 - a 25% decline - according to an analysis from the progressive thinktank Climate and Community Project, which informed the policy proposal.
Instead of allowing the nation's public housing stock to wither away, the bill seeks to transform it. Units would not only be repaired and freed of contaminants like lead and mold, but also made efficient and green.
Each would be insulated and weatherized to conserve energy, as well as outfitted with fossil fuel-free electric appliances. Renewable energy would be installed on-site. And developments would be made climate-resilient with increased green space and decreased paved areas, which can help absorb heat and soak up water during heavy rains.
In addition to slashing greenhouse gas pollution, the bill would come with "major health and comfort benefits", said Kira McDonald, a researcher at Climate and Community Project who co-authored the report.
Removing fossil fuel-powered appliances would lower air pollution and therefore improve residents' respiratory health. And insulation and heat pumps could cut energy bills, while making homes easier to keep at a comfortable temperature amid extreme weather.
The Green New Deal for Public Housing would not only improve the nation's existing public units, but also "finally help build more", said Ocasio-Cortez. Currently, the 1998 Faircloth Amendment in effect prevents the federal government from funding new public housing, but the proposal would immediately repeal that policy in order to erect more state-of-the-art, green units.
The policy would benefit the US's most vulnerable residents. Public housing residents are disproportionately likely to be people of color, and 24% of public housing residents are living with a disability.
"The Green New Deal for Public Housing is going to change the game for those of us and our neighbors who are being hit hardest by the climate crisis," said Saul Levin, legislative and political director of the progressive advocacy group Green New Deal Network.
The policy also would have knock-on effects for the entire nation, including by spurring the creation of about 280,000 jobs over a decade. The bill includes language to ensure those jobs are all unionized.
It could also help create a supply of efficient technologies for all residents. Last year, New York City's public housing authority invited manufacturers to compete for a contract to create and install at least 10,000 induction stoves in New York City Housing Authority (Nycha) buildings, specifically calling for apartment-sized models that do not require electrical upgrades. The winning model will become available on the market for all US residents.
"Those models are available elsewhere, but not in the US because producers basically don't see that there is a strong enough market," said McDonald. "This can change that."
Nycha has launched a similar program to bring small heat pumps on to the US market, and back in the 1990s put out a call for small, energy-efficient refrigerators that helped shape the green fridge market.
"There are gaps in green building technology and green appliance markets in the US," said McDonald. "Public housing can help fill them ... so this policy is also a form of green industrial policy."
Public housing is the only form of US housing whose affordability does not rely "solely on the market and solely on billionaires", Ocasio-Cortez said at Thursday's press conference.
Jasmine Sanchez, a housing advocate who lives in a Nycha development, said many public housing residents face the "constant threat of privatization" and often feel left behind by the US government.
"Everyone deserves to be invested in and everyone deserves to live threat free," she said.
Though the bill is not expected to pass, Climate and Community Project says support to expand and improve public housing is growing. In 2021, the report notes, the House voted to repeal the Faircloth Amendment and most Democratic lawmakers supported including $60bn for public housing in the spending package that later became the Inflation Reduction Act, though both measures ultimately failed to pass.
"While just a couple of senators ultimately blocked these reforms, it was clear that there is already strong support for saving public housing that advocates can build on," the report says.
The policy represents a "visionary future that will uplift everyone", said Levin of Green New Deal Network.
"By lifting up the world we need," he said, "we are building toward that vision".
#89
Liberal Senate hopeful Andrew Constance has been accused of putting his political ambitions ahead of "sound policy based on facts" after he backed opponents of a proposed offshore wind farm zone in New South Wales' Illawarra region.
Constance, a former NSW cabinet minister, told a public meeting on Monday that the federal government needed to put the brakes on plans to create an offshore wind zone between Wollongong and Gerringong. The zone is one of six offshore wind zone areas announced by the Albanese government.
The debate over offshore wind energy in NSW has been mired in misinformation, with prominent claims that the turbines kill whales, following similar claims in the US. Scientists have said these claims were not backed by evidence.
The event in the Illawarra was attended by about 80 people and featured speakers from the anti-windfarm coalition and a local lobster farmer. It was the last meeting before community submissions for the proposed windfarm zone close on Wednesday. Several speakers raised the potential impact on migratory birds and whales.
Constance told the audience he doubted the viability of offshore wind farms in the area due to inflation and supply constraints, and raised concerns about their impact on the environment and tourism.
"We are right to expect our government to do its homework first," he said.
Constance, a moderate Liberal, is running for a vacant Senate spot following the resignation of the former foreign affairs minister Marise Payne. The spot is expected to be decided later this month.
"If I'm successful, I can back you," Constance told the audience, later urging them to vote Liberal.
Constance told the Illawarra meeting people were entitled to ask "some pretty fundamental questions" about the environmental impact of the Illawarra proposal. "I understand the stress and concern about the whale migration," he said.
Peter Dutton and longtime renewable energy opponent Barnaby Joyce have also expressed opposition to offshore wind farms. Joyce told a rally in Port Stephens last month that support for renewable energy was a cult and urged the crowd to fight back.
The independent MP Zali Steggall, who has been advocating for changes enforcing truth in political advertising, said Constance appeared to be motivated by winning a Senate seat. "Clearly, it shows this is about politics and political ambition to get elected rather than sound policy based on facts," she said.
Steggall said the environmental impact of offshore wind farms had "to be weighed against the overall benefits in our transition to renewable energy and to move away from fossil fuels".
"The environmental impact is far greater if we continue burning fossil fuel than if we have minimal environmental impact by localised projects, like offshore wind," she said.
In response to Steggall's comments, Constance said: "I look forward to seeing Zali Steggall call for an additional zone off Manly in light of her confidence in Bowen's so called open and transparent processes."
????? ?????
Constance echoed other speaker's concerns during the meeting that the government had not provided enough information. "[Climate change and energy minister] Chris Bowen is making it up as he goes along, quite frankly," Constance said.
"Countries around the world are only starting to look at floating wind turbine technology and for Minister Bowen to do zones without any evidence base for the Illawarra and Hunter, in light of the unique features of our coast, is grossly irresponsible," he later told Guardian Australia.
Towards the end of the two-hour meeting, an audience member asked whether the speakers were equally concerned about the impact of climate change on marine life.
The person asking the question was heckled, with one audience member shouting "you greenies are killing the environment". Another said: "I'm not concerned about climate change."
Amanda De Lore, a speaker at the event and one of the founders of the anti-offshore wind coalition, said "we're all very concerned about the environment and we know about climate change", but suggested the offshore wind zone was a more immediate concern. "This is something that's going to impact on us not in 30 years, it's coming soon."
Constance acknowledged climate change was already happening, referring to his experience during the Black Summer bushfires, and said innovation was needed.
"There is no doubt there is a change in the environment," he said. "We should be looking at this whole issue differently, it shouldn't be dividing us."
#90
Construction could start before the new year on a gas pipeline expansion through the Pacific north-west that state officials say will undermine the region's renewable transition and further fuel climate emergencies.
The region is suffering from annual wildfires, deadly heat domes and drought. Lawmakers in Washington, Oregon and California have passed some of the country's most stringent laws to move away from fossil fuels, but they say the federal commission that greenlit the project threatens to undermine that progress.
"Our state, and the whole west coast, has numerous laws that will restrict the appetite for gas in the years to come," said Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington state, who signed a law in 2021 that set caps for the state's largest emitters. "And they essentially ignored that."
In October, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Ferc) approved the expansion of GTN Xpress, a pipeline that carries gas from fracking fields in Western Canada through Idaho, Washington, Oregon and California. Proponents say the expansion is needed to meet growing consumer demand.
Ferc's own draft environmental assessment found the expansion would result in the greenhouse gas equivalent of adding more than 700,000 gasoline-powered vehicles to the road each year.
The expansion would upgrade compressor stations, allowing more gas to pass through the existing pipeline. Critics say upgrading compressor stations helps GTN Xpress bypass some regulations.
"We thought we were on the right path," said Pam Marsh, an Oregon state representative, who sponsored a 2021 law requiring state utilities to transition to carbon-free electricity generation by 2040. In 2020, a wildfire destroyed 2,500 homes in Marsh's district. "Climate change is happening, it's right in front of us, it's devastating, and we have to do everything that we can to mitigate the potential damage yet to come," she said.
In November, attorneys general of Washington, Oregon and California and environmental groups filed a joint petition asking Ferc withdraw its "deficient, unlawful order authorizing the GTN Xpress Project", arguing that Ferc failed to critically assess the project's climate impacts. They also said the plan did not account for state laws that would decrease gas demand. Ferc has until 22 December to respond.
"Ferc is a completely captured agency that is failing to do its responsibility under the law," said Jeff Merkley, an Oregon senator. "In their mind, 'need' simply means the fossil fuel companies want to do it, and so they rubber-stamp it."
Ferc is an independent agency, but it collects annual fees from the industries it regulates, including the gas industry. In the last two decades, the commission has approved 423 of the 425 pipeline projects that came before it.
Merkley and three other senators urged the commission to reject the proposed expansion, arguing that "if GTN continues business as usual with its pipeline in 2050, that would represent 48 percent of the region's target GHG emissions from all sources". They added, "Put simply, there is no way that our states can meet their emissions goals if this project moves forward."
Opponents have voiced concerns about health risks associated with the expansion. Compressor stations emit a cocktail of pollutants, like benzene, which is linked to higher risk of some cancers, and carbon monoxide.
Lawmakers and environmental groups have also criticized environmental safety and human rights record of TC Energy, GTN's parent-company; it was fined for environmental violations on a pipeline in British Columbia, where it was also accused of working with police to arrest Indigenous demonstrators. There was an explosion this year on its Virginia gas pipeline and a huge oil spill on its Keystone pipeline in 2022.
Indigenous groups, including the Indigenous Environmental Network and the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission, say the project contributes to a climate crisis that puts native species, like steelhead trout and salmon, at risk.
"We're definitely worried about [the expansion]," said Alysia Aguilar Littleleaf, who runs a fly fishing business on the Warm Springs reservation in Oregon. "That's why we opposed it from the very get-go."
When reached for comment, Michael Tadeo, the TC Energy spokesperson, wrote: "Having undergone over two years of analysis and consideration by the agency, GTN XPress is one of the most thoroughly reviewed infrastructure projects approved by FERC this year." He added, "We appreciate FERC's bipartisan action to approve the project and will work diligently to place it into service as soon as possible." Tadeo did not respond to questions about TC Energy's environmental record.
Opponents of the project also argue that expanding the pipeline also assumes demand for fossil fuels stays at present-day levels or grows over time. However, advocates argue that consumer demand will fall as the energy transition progresses.
"Those precedent agreements do not paint a full picture of demand," said Audrey Leonard, lawyer with Columbia Riverkeeper, which is fighting the project. "Just because you have someone willing to buy the gas doesn't mean that gas is necessary."
A state regulator independently came to the same conclusion. This year, Washington's regulatory commission ridiculed the utility Cascade, which has a contract to buy gas from GTN Xpress, for relying on old energy consumption models that fail to consider new state laws. It called Cascade's analysis of GTN Xpress "conspicuously inadequate".
TC Energy and Cascade did not respond to questions about the state commission's comments.
Asked if the project is needed, Tadeo wrote in an email that demand for gas on the existing GTN system grew by more than 26% from 2014 to 2021, while supply has been constrained, leading to "unnecessarily high energy prices and strained reliability for consumers".
If Ferc denies the petition to stop the project, TC Energy can begin construction, although opponents will probably appeal through federal courts.
"We intend to enforce our laws," Inslee said. "If you do this construction, and we enforce them, you'll have a stranded asset, you'll have a bunch of compressors sitting there and a pipeline you can't use but you made the ratepayers pay for it."
#91

The last decade saw Australia experience its lowest productivity growth in 60 years, and the Albanese government is concerned it will continue if the country does not adjust to large structural changes in the economy, including the transition to net zero.
The latest intergenerational report - to be released in full by the treasurer on Thursday - shows productivity growth remaining a problem, with Australia no more immune to sluggish growth than other major economies around the world.
Over the 10 years to 2020, average labour productivity growth fell to just 1.1%, compared with 1.8% over the 60 years to 2019-20. A productivity commission inquiry released in February found the same thing, with the report concluding Australia needed "policy settings that foster a flexible and dynamic economy".
The report calls for "reforms that reduce entry and exit barriers for firms" with the idea that more competition will lead to "greater dynamism" within the economy. That includes encouraging worker mobility "by better matching workers with a broader spectrum of emerging employment opportunities".
The report pushes for Australia to be at the forefront of innovation, such as cloud computing, machine learning and artificial intelligence, while also seizing the opportunities in the net zero transformation.
"The net zero transformation is creating new markets, disrupting trade patterns, and introducing opportunities to lower electricity costs. Rising temperatures also present a range of challenges to productivity growth, which increases the importance of planning and investing in adaptability and resilience," an extract from the IGR reads.
"Amidst these structural changes Australia also has opportunities to increase economic diversity and grow the share of higher productivity industries."
The Albanese government is laying out five "key pillars" of economic growth as a response, which aligns with the IGR's call for "new frontiers for innovation and investment" and helping people upskill throughout their careers.
Chalmers said the government is "refreshing and renewing our economic institutions" as well as working to expand housing supply and create more sustainable infrastructure pipelines as part of a focus on "economic dynamism and resilience".
Data and digital technologies and a "skilled and adaptable workforce" remain focuses, along with building the nation's care economy and government services. The fifth focus is Australia's transition to renewables, with the aim of "becoming a renewable energy super power".
"The intergenerational report will make the critical point that the trajectory of productivity growth in the future is not a foregone conclusion, and it will depend on how we respond to the big shifts impacting our economy," Chalmers said.
"Our approach is all about investing in our people, skills, innovation, technology and cheaper and cleaner energy - not about making people work harder for less.
"By maximising the opportunities of the energy transformation, embracing new technology, by investing in our people and their skills, we can build a more productive and prosperous economy."
Chalmers said boosting productivity was "vital to boosting wages and living standards" which is why it was taking the message of the latest IGR seriously.
The IGR is released about every five years and is Treasury's attempts to forecast what the next four decades will look like, with the report informing, but not deciding, government policy.
#92
Just 65% of UK businesses have a plan to reduce their emissions to net zero by the 2050 deadline, the largest ever industry survey has revealed.
The report covering 2,005 organisations across all sizes and sectors by UK Business Climate Hub, which included the CBI, the Institute of Directors and the British Chambers of Commerce, found that only half of those surveyed were even measuring their carbon footprint.
Those that did have a plan to meet net zero carbon emissions - which means they and their supply chain would not emit more greenhouse gas emissions than they absorbed - reported that there were many barriers in place that may make the target impossible to meet.
Specific barriers identified in the report, released on Wednesday, included post-Brexit regulatory uncertainty. The report said: "Regulatory certainty can make it easier for companies to commit to long-term sustainability goals and integrate them into their core operations. This stability will encourage more organisations to take definitive actions, attract talent and investment and become increasingly resilient. Alignment with key international markets, particularly the EU, will be important to facilitate seamless trade."
Companies also reported that infrastructure including transport was not green enough, and there had not been enough government and financial support to boost energy efficiency, renewables and other carbon-saving measures. Ninety-two percent of organisations said improved government support would be beneficial, for giving information and advice on emissions reductions, helping to finance the transition, and having stable long-term regulatory policies.
The report also ranks the sectors making the most progress to net zero. The IT and communications sector fares best, with 68% of companies having a plan to meet net zero. The worst is the financial sector, with 52% companies signed up to the target.
Notable respondents to the survey included Barclays, the British Retail Consortium, the National Grid, Lloyds Bank, HSBC, and NatWest.
Ed Lockhart, at the Broadway Initiative, which manages UK Business Climate Hub, said: "The leadership shown by many UK organisations in the census is deeply inspiring, helping accelerate our collective progress towards a more sustainable future. Despite these significant strides, substantial challenges remain, particularly for small and medium-size enterprises who often lack the same access to resources available to larger organisations.
"To address these disparities and drive collective action for all, we recognise the need for greater partnership between government and business to develop sector-specific decarbonisation pathways and guidance, as well as enhanced financial mechanisms and expanding trusted information resources like the UK Business Climate Hub. Such measures are crucial for ensuring a smooth and effective transition towards a net zero economy."
Andrew Griffiths, the director of policy and corporate development at the certification group Planet Mark, added: "The findings also send a clear message that targeted support and a stable policy environment is critical for them to implement effective net zero strategies, which the Labour government has a unique opportunity to deliver. We look forward to continuing to collaborate with UKBCH to make net zero accessible to all organisations."
In 2019, the UK government was the first in the world to sign the country up to net zero carbon emissions by 2050. Many others have followed including the US, the EU, New Zealand and South Korea.
#93
The Western Australian government has lifted a ban preventing onshore gas producers from exporting any of their gas, a move conservationists say will drive up greenhouse gas emissions.
To encourage more gas development, onshore gas producers in the state will now be allowed to export up to 20% of their gas until 2030, the government announced on Thursday.
The former premier Mark McGowan introduced the ban for onshore producers in 2020 but exempted one project, the large Waitsia plant part-owned by Beach Energy, which could export half its gas.
A policy to reserve 15% of offshore gas for the domestic market remains in place.
The current WA premier, Roger Cook, said the state needed "a secure supply of gas as firming fuel in our system and to help us to become a global renewable energy powerhouse".
The policy update would provide certainty for gas producers and users, he said, and encourage new onshore gas projects.
Jess Beckerling, the executive director of the Conservation Council of WA, said the decision ignored a parliamentary inquiry recommendation that onshore gas exports should be banned unless the domestic market was adequately supplied.
"WA's gas industry is driving up domestic and global emissions at a time when they need to be rapidly reducing," Beckerling said.
"Gas is not a transition fuel, it's a fossil fuel that is diverting investment away from renewable energy. There is no future with gas."
Rod Campbell, the research director at progressive thinktank the Australia Institute, suggested the government was bowing to pressure from producers to incentivise new projects. "The barbarians are at the gates of the WA domestic gas market and the WA government is throwing them the keys."
The institute said its as yet unpublished report on WA gas policy - seen by Guardian Australia - had been sent earlier in September to all state MPs, saying almost 90% of the state's gas was already used for the liquefied natural gas (LNG) export industry.
Campbell and Beckerling both said Thursday's changes would benefit fossil fuel giant Woodside, which was trying to secure more gas for its export projects in the North West shelf.
Campbell said: "This is the east coast gas policy mess all over again," referring to concerns about gas supply in eastern states.
He said the move, in more closely linking domestic and export markets, was "a disaster for Western Australian gas users".
"It also benefits gas companies that would rather sell WA's domestic onshore gas to Woodside than Western Australians," Campbell said.
"Reducing gas exports and reducing WA's own use of gas would be the most responsible path, both economically and environmentally."
#94
Britain has given the go-ahead to develop the UK's biggest untapped oilfield off Shetland, sparking outrage from environmental campaigners.
The UK oil and gas regulator's decision to grant the Oslo-listed Equinor and the British firm Ithaca Energy permission to develop the Rosebank oil and gas field in the North Sea was condemned by the Green party MP Caroline Lucas as "the greatest act of environmental vandalism in my lifetime".
"We have today approved the Rosebank field development plan, which allows the owners to proceed with their project," the North Sea Transition Authority said in a statement on Wednesday.
"The FDP is awarded in accordance with our published guidance and taking net zero considerations into account throughout the project's lifecycle."
The field has the potential to produce 500m barrels of oil in its lifetime, which when burned would emit as much carbon dioxide as running 56 coal-fired power stations for a year.
Green campaigners, including Greta Thunberg, had called on the UK government to halt the development, arguing that it contravened Britain's plan for a net zero economy.
"Rishi Sunak has proven once and for all that he puts the profits of oil companies above everyday people," said Philip Evans, a Greenpeace UK climate campaigner. "We know that relying on fossil fuels is terrible for our energy security, the cost of living, and the climate."
Rosebank could produce 69,000 barrels of oil a day - about 8% of the UK's projected daily output between 2026 and 2030 - and could also produce 44m cubic feet of gas every day, according to Equinor.
Tessa Khan, a climate lawyer and the executive director of the campaign group Uplift, which helped coordinate the Stop Rosebank campaign, said a legal challenge could be mounted against the government.
"There are strong grounds to believe that the way this government has come to this decision is unlawful and we will see them in court if so," she said.
Hannah Martin, a co-director of Green New Deal Rising, said: "Approving the Rosebank oilfield is an act of climate vandalism by Rishi Sunak and his government ... but Labour has not committed to reversing this decision, despite acknowledging that Rosebank's approval is wrong.
"This position does not make sense, and there is still time for Keir Starmer to put himself on the right side of history and show leadership by committing to revoking Rosebank's licence." Members of Fossil Free London and Stop Rosebank protested outside the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero on Whitehall Place.
Starmer defended Labour's position on the Political Thinking with Nick Robinson podcast on Thursday. "What we've said is no new licences to be granted when we're in power, but we won't revoke anything, any licences that are granted before we come into power," he said.
"I'm mindful of the fact that if there's one thing that has killed growth in the last 13 years - and it has been killed - it's the chopping and changing lack of strategic thinking. And therefore, as a matter of principle, we will accept, as it were, the baseline that we inherit from the government if we win that election."
Simon Francis, the coordinator of the End Fuel Poverty Coalition, said: "Hidden in the small print of the deal is that this project can only go ahead thanks to a massive tax break the government is giving to international oil and gas giant Equinor.
"Households struggling with their energy bills will be shocked that the new energy secretary has chosen to hand a multibillion-pound tax break to this Norwegian firm ... Figures show that more North Sea production will only give us an extra year of domestic gas, which will be charged to struggling households at global market prices."
Claire Coutinho, the secretary of state for energy security and net zero, said the UK needed to "be pragmatic", with oil and gas forecast to still be needed for a quarter of the country's energy needs in 2050.
"We will not play politics with our energy security," she posted on X. "The choice we face is this: do we shut down our own oil and gas leaving us reliant on foreign regimes? Do we lose 200,000 jobs across the UK? Do we import fuel with much higher carbon footprints instead? And lose billions in tax revenue?
"We are a world leader at reducing carbon emissions but as much as we will be ambitious, we must be pragmatic."
We will not play politics with our energy security. Even the independent Climate Change Committee has said that in 2050, we will need oil and gas for a quarter of our energy.
The chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, said: "We are accelerating renewables and nuclear power but will still need oil and gas for decades to come - so let's get more of what we need from within British waters."
Permission to develop the field has come a week after Sunak announced a U-turn on the government's climate commitments, including pushing back the deadline for selling new petrol and diesel cars and the phasing out of gas boilers.
The Rosebank project has faced stiff resistance, with hundreds of climate scientists and academics and more than 200 organisations, from the Women's Institute to Oxfam, joining tens of thousands of people across the UK in opposing it.
The International Energy Agency warned before the UK-hosted Cop26 climate summit in 2021 that no new oil and gas exploration should take place if the world was to limit global heating to 1.5C above pre-industrial temperatures. This year, the UN secretary general, António Guterres, called on governments to halt new licences for oil and gas exploration and development.
#95
Norway's state investment fund has urged Shell to clarify its climate targets as the oil group braces for its biggest ever green shareholder rebellion at next week's annual general meeting.
Norges Bank Investment Management (NBIM), which manages $1.6tn on behalf of the people of Norway and is one of Shell's largest investors, urged the company to give investors more information about its plans for the next decade after its new chief executive watered down climate commitments earlier this year.
Shell's board will on Tuesday face a shareholder resolution backed by 27 of its investors - holding 2.5% of its shares - calling for the company to align its business plans with the Paris climate agreement.
The push, which has been coordinated by the Dutch campaign group Follow This, is understood to be the largest such climate rebellion mounted against Shell's directors in terms of the size of the funds involved.
NBIM, which invests the proceeds from Norway's own fossil fuel reserves and holds just over 3% of Shell, has stopped short of backing the campaign but has called for the company to make "additional disclosures" to reduce the uncertainty over its climate agenda.
Shell angered green groups earlier this year after its new chief executive watered down a key climate target as it prepared to grow its liquefied natural gas business through the 2030s.
NBIM said Shell's strategy "has evolved" under the leadership of Wael Sawan - who last year claimed it was "dangerous" to reduce fossil fuel production - but it still believed its strategy retained "the core components of a Paris-aligned transition plan".
Shell has signalled it may slow the pace of carbon reforms for this decade, with a plan to cut the emissions intensity of the energy it sells by 15-20% by the end of the decade, down from a previous target of 20%. It has not set a scope 3 emissions target for its gas business, which is expected to grow by 50% by 2040.
"Our expectations ask for interim and net zero targets. We have encouraged Shell to make additional strategy disclosures that could reduce uncertainty about the company's direction in the mid-2030s," NBIM said.
Mark van Baal, the founder of Follow This, said NBIM's decision to vote against the campaign's climate resolution "puts its climate credibility into question" and could delay Shell's climate progress.
"Why should Shell do more than just talk about climate if one of its biggest shareholders only talks and refuses to do the bare minimum, which is to vote for a climate resolution filed by 27 of its peers," Van Baal said.
The main investor proxy voting advisory agencies, Glass Lewis and ISS, have advised shareholders to vote against the Follow This resolution.
#96
Scientists have called for people to go "urban mining" after a study revealed that old cables, phone chargers and other unused electrical goods thrown away or stored in cupboards or drawers could stave off a looming shortage of copper.
The research found that in the UK there are approximately 823m unused or broken tech items hiding in "drawers of doom" containing as much as 38,449 tonnes of copper - including 627m cables - enough to provide 30% of the copper needed for the UK's planned transition to a decarbonised electricity grid by 2030.
Copper is essential in the drive to decarbonise the economy - being a crucial element of solar and wind developments as well as electric cars.
The study found that unused electrical goods could contain as much as £266m worth of copper. Scott Butler, from Recycle Your Electricals, which produced the study, called on the public to start recycling their unwanted electrical goods.
"We need to start 'urban mining' and help protect the planet and nature from the harmful impacts of mining for raw materials and instead value and use what we have already."
Butler added that people often do not realise that cables and electricals contain valuable materials. "If binned or stashed, we lose everything inside them."
The group is now urging everyone to check its "recycling locator" for their nearest facility.
"Anything with a plug, battery or cable can be reused and recycled and there's somewhere near you to do it."
Experts say copper demand is outstripping production - driven in part by sustainable energy projects and electric cars - and the mining process can have devastating environmental and social consequences.
An analysis by Bloomberg Intelligence found that better recycling of electrical goods could help meet that additional demand.
Grant Sporre, senior analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence, said the world was facing severe shortages of copper within the next five to 10 years.
"The building of renewable power generation in the form of wind and solar farms, and the switch from petrol and diesel cars to electric, could keep copper demand growing at 2.5 to 3% per annum ... Better recycling practices and efficiencies will be needed to close this gap."
Cables represent one of the UK's biggest e-waste challenges, according to the research, with UK households throwing away or holding on to an average of 23 cables. Research by the Critical Minerals Association has identified that they contain at least 20% copper - meaning that across all UK households, cables alone could contribute 3,251 tonnes of metal.
The Royal Society of Chemistry [RSC] has calculated 347,000 tonnes of copper would be needed to build the required number of wind turbines and solar panels by 2030.
"The UK needs to wake up to just how important copper is in achieving our greener future," said Izzi Monk, RSC policy adviser for the environment. "We are potentially facing imminent and substantial supply concerns where we won't be able to meet the global demand for this vital material. That's why we're calling for government to commit to a strategic, joined-up approach to materials that considers these supply risks."
#97
The Nationals leader, David Littleproud, will face a concerted push at the federal conference of the party this weekend to dump its commitment to achieving net zero emissions by 2050.
Guardian Australia has obtained a copy of a motion submitted by Barnaby Joyce's federal electorate council in New England that calls on the Nationals parliamentary party room to "abolish its policy of net zero by 2050, and adopt a policy that will reduce Australia's CO2 emissions in collaboration with the rest of the world".
The new motion - which some party sources interpret as a strategic strike intended to destabilise Littleproud's leadership - has alarmed moderate Liberals because the Nationals abandoning net zero would reopen an acrimonious internal Coalition discussion about climate policy.
As well as dumping net zero, the new motion championed by the New England FEC also calls on the Nationals party room to "ensure that any policies relating to CO2 emissions do not negatively affect on-farm production of food and fibre".
The conference push from Joyce's party organisation in New England is ironic given the Nationals' official commitment to the net zero target  
The Nationals agreed to net zero in October 2021 after the prime minister at the time, Scott Morrison, made it clear ahead of UN-led climate talks in Glasgow that he wanted that target to be government policy.
Joyce made it clear during a Nationals party room discussion to settle the policy commitment that he did not support net zero. But a majority of his colleagues - including Littleproud - did. In National party terms, Littleproud, historically, has been significantly more progressive on the climate transition than Joyce.
Some Nationals believe the insurrection is likely to succeed at the weekend, although the motion is unlikely to be backed by conference delegates from Western Australia and Victoria.
Joyce told Guardian Australia the motion "did not come from me". But he also acknowledged he was "pleased they're having the discussion."
Joyce said he would express a view on the motion at the Nationals' conference "but right now in New England and many parts of Australia, the biggest issue I'm getting run over with is transmission lines, the diminution of value of people's properties and ... being surrounded by a new industrial park".
"We seem to be wearing this: the transmission lines, the windfarms and solar factories in New England," he said. "Everywhere else gets to feel virtuous, but we get completely run over with the impediments. You don't hear any proposals to put wind and solar factories in [Sydney's] North Head or Middle Head or transmission lines in Sydney or off the beaches. It wouldn't be tolerated, understandably."
Joyce declared renewables projects and transmission lines were "turning the whole landscape into an industrial park" on behalf of the residents of cities and these were "completely changing" the landscape "for the worse".
"They don't want any part of the infrastructure but they want the virtue of the source [of renewable energy]."
Joyce claimed Labor had "completely botched" the transition to net zero, to the extent they are "now subsidising coalfire power stations" - a reference to the extension of the Eraring power station - because "they've got no alternative".
Ahead of the 2022 election a number of Queensland Nationals undercut the Coalition's support of net zero, including the then candidate for Flynn and now MP Colin Boyce, who described the target as "flexible", and senator Matt Canavan, who said that net zero was "over".
Asked about these comments and the Coalition's position on net zero leading into the next election, the deputy Nationals leader, Perin Davey, recently told Guardian Australia: "Officially, we still have a net zero policy in the Nationals as well as in the Coalition."
"We've always been technology, not taxes," she said on 24 August. "The Nationals have been very forthcoming in our openness to talk about nuclear. And we're very pleased that the Liberals have now started to look at it and are actually making positive noises about nuclear too ... We're very proud that we've led the way."
Littleproud, told the Guardian's Australian Politics podcast in May that the Nationals' engagement with young people would be improved by a focus on the "environment and articulating to them that we are serious about net zero and how we achieve it".
#98

The populist backlash against net zero around the world is imperilling the fight against climate breakdown and must be countered urgently or we face planetary destruction "beyond comprehension", the US climate chief, John Kerry, has warned.
He hit out at the rise of "disinformation" and "demagoguery" which he said were damaging the transition away from fossil fuels, and being used as tactics by special interests to delay action.
"People are not being told the truth about what the impacts are from making this transition [to net zero greenhouse gas emissions]," he said. "They're being scared, purposely frightened by the demagoguery that is oblivious to the facts or distorting the facts. And in some cases outright lying is going on."
Political leaders must be guided by the science of the climate crisis and reject the calls for delay, he said. "We have politics now entering into this - fighting for delay and fighting for progress. They're procrastinating and they're part of the disinformation crowd that are willing to put the whole world at risk for whatever political motivations may be behind their choices here," Kerry told the Guardian in an interview in London.
He urged political leaders to be guided instead by clear scientific fact, which has established the need to reach net zero in order to hold down catastrophic global temperature rises.
News that Kerry would step down from his role as US climate chief this spring broke in January, but no official announcement has yet been made and he continues on a full round of travel and meetings, including talks with British parliamentarians this week. Kerry has served as special envoy for climate since Joe Biden took office in 2021, and was previously secretary of state under Barack Obama in his second presidential term, including leading the US's negotiation and signing of the 2015 Paris agreement.
Kerry contrasted the procrastinators with the efforts of the US president to boost renewable energy and low-carbon technologies. "Nothing that we are doing, nothing that President Biden has sought to do, has any political motivation or ideological rationale. It's entirely a reaction to science, to the mathematics and physics that explain what is happening [to the climate]," he said.
Though Kerry refused to name any specific interests or politicians, his words reflect the concern among many that the climate is likely to be weaponised in the US election campaigns this year, and in other countries as billions of people around the world head to the polls.
Donald Trump, who is campaigning to be the Republican candidate for a second term at the White House, has repeatedly cast doubt on climate science, vowing to remove the US from the Paris agreement and roll back the policies boosting clean energy espoused by Biden.
Trump is far from alone - a growing backlash against climate policies has been fanned by rightwing parties and populist leaders across the globe, claiming that net zero is too expensive or has no point, while users of social media platforms such as X have been increasingly bombarded by falsehoods and disinformation from climate change deniers.
Kerry warned that the backlash against climate action was having a substantial impact. "We have our work cut out for us because they're scaring certain companies. You'll see people retrenching on some things, which is exactly the wrong thing to have happening right now. We ought to be speeding up," he said.
He said many businesses were set clearly on a path to a low-carbon future, but some were not moving fast enough. "The choice is, will we do this in time to avoid the worst consequences of the climate crisis? The question is, are you going to put your head in the sand and do business as usual, because you're so greedy?"
Some countries and businesses might be tempted to backpedal on climate action, in the belief they could increase short-term profits by ignoring net zero, he said. "Why do we have a problem? Because we're burning fossil fuels persistently, without capturing the emissions. How do you solve that problem? Capture the emissions, or don't make them. Those are the two choices, and we're not making those.
"Now maybe some of those guys are richer now [from exploiting fossil fuels]. For the countries well off enough that they think they won't be affected that much, that they think they can get through it. And people with money will have an easier time adjusting. But the cost to less developed economies, the cost to emerging economies, the cost to poor people around the world will just be beyond comprehension, with billions affected by lack of food, lack of water, other implications."
No country could hope to escape the consequences, he warned: "This is a multilateral major challenge to the security of every nation on this planet, because we're one planet, and we're all linked."
#99
Aberdeen is arguably best known for two things: granite - found in nearby quarries and used to construct almost all of the coastal city's buildings - and oil. After the discovery of a significant reserve in the North Sea in the 1970s, Aberdeen became known as Europe's oil capital and a thriving oil and gas industry sprang up in Scotland's north-east.
At the centre of the boom was the multinational company Shell, which built a five-storey modernist headquarters in the city's Tullos area, from where it operated for half a century, before moving this year.
Now the building has become the subject of a bitter row after Shell announced its intention to demolish rather than upgrade and repurpose it.
The company notified Aberdeen city council of its plans in mid-July. Since then, an open letter has been signed by more than 40 local architects, academics and climate activists raising concerns about the carbon emissions associated with destroying rather than reusing the building. Shell has not yet revealed its plans for the site.
"The environmental impact assessment conducted for Shell fails to measure or consider the carbon emissions relating to demolition in any way," reads the letter. "Yet the emissions involved in processing, recycling and transporting all the elements of the demolished building will be vast, especially given the huge amount of concrete in the existing structure."
Last month, the letter points out, the secretary of state for levelling up, housing and communities, Michael Gove, overruled the planned demolition of the flagship Marks & Spencer store on London's Oxford Street, in part because of the carbon footprint and environmental implications of destruction.
Doing so saved an estimated 40,000 tonnes of carbon, an amount which could only have been offset by the planting of 2.4m trees.
While much of the focus has been on Shell's oilfields, campaigners say the emissions involved in processing, recycling and transporting all the elements of the demolished building would be vast. Photograph: Bloomberg/Getty Images
And while Shell and the council have referred to an assessment which determined demolition as the only feasible plan for the building, this has not been made publicly available, the letter's signatories claim.
Matthew Clubb, owner of Aberdeen-based architectural design practice mwclubb, and the original writer of the letter, said it was "no surprise" that Shell wanted to demolish the building.
The company has "abandoned a transition to renewable energy in any meaningful way, in favour of climate-wrecking profits," Clubb said.
"So failing to even measure the emissions from their buildings and construction projects is entirely consistent with that mentality." He added: "To me, it seems that there are too many people trying to solve the global problem of climate emissions without thinking on the local scale.
"Even if we are to eventually demolish this building, where will we plant the 3m trees that will offset the emissions incurred? How can we delay this action to avoid the short-term emissions spike? We must think long term, beyond the election cycle and beyond the financial forecasts."
Clubb said his firm worked solely on retrofit projects because of the need to reuse existing buildings if carbon emissions were to be cut.
Another signatory, Richard Laing, professor of urban collaboration at Northumbria University and honorary professor at Aberdeen's Robert Gordon University, said the carbon emissions associated with demolishing rather than reusing the building were "neither affordable nor acceptable".
"We need to rapidly move away from an endless cycle of building and demolition and urgently find creative ways in which to repurpose vacant property," he said.
Both Aberdeen city council and Shell UK have publicly committed to reaching net zero. In March, the council joined a growing number of local authorities in declaring a climate emergency, with council leader Ian Yuill stating it was "committed to playing a full role in tackling these emergencies".
The letter's signatories have called for the planning application to be delayed or rejected until further information is made available, including the assessment that determined redevelopment was unfeasible.
They have demanded that Shell carry out another environmental impact assessment, as well as a "life cycle assessment" of all available options for the site. And they have said the public should be invited to submit design and reuse suggestions.
In response, Simon Roddy, Shell UK's senior vice-president, said: "For decades Tullos was a fantastic home for Shell in Aberdeen. "After completing our move to the Silver Fin Building on Union Street we are evaluating options for the future use of the Tullos site.
Removal of the buildings will help unlock the potential of the site to make a positive contribution to the city."
A council spokesperson said demolitions of this nature might not require planning consent. They said planning officers had taken part in initial discussions about the site, but not a full assessment of its suitability for reuse.
"The council are in receipt of an environmental impact assessment screening report, which officers are currently working through and will respond to in due course," the spokesperson said.
Across the country, a number of debates have emerged about the climate implications of demolishing buildings rather than retrofitting and repurposing them.
Marks & Spencer, London
In March 2021 the retail giant announced plans to demolish and rebuild its largest UK store, on the western end of London's Oxford Street, following a shift to online shopping during the pandemic. But opposition quickly emerged among architects, climate activists, and even the author Bill Bryson, over the estimated 40,000 tons of carbon which a demolition would release into the environment.
Levelling up secretary Michael Gove announced an inquiry into the plans in 2022, and in July this year he rejected them, suggesting that the company had not sufficiently explored alternatives to demolition.
Wyndford Flats, Glasgow
Plans to knock down four 1960s tower blocks in the north-west of the city have also sparked debate about carbon emissions, with leading Scottish architect Malcolm Fraser among those sounding the alarm over a potential 47,000 tons of embodied carbon. Last month, housing association Wheatley Homes was given permission to proceed with the demolition - but campaigners have announced their plans to pursue a judicial review of the decision.
County Hall, Cardiff
Cardiff council announced its intention in June to replace its current headquarters at County Hall in the city's Butetown with a smaller building. Opposition quickly followed, with the Twentieth Century Society, a campaigning group which aims to protect Britain's modern architecture, telling WalesOnline: "the enormous carbon cost of large-scale demolition is simply not compatible" with the council's climate commitments. The council said that it continued to explore options.
#100
The United Arab Emirates, which will run the crucial Cop28 UN climate summit in December, has failed to report its emissions of the powerful greenhouse gas methane to the UN for almost a decade, the Guardian can reveal.
Its state oil company, Adnoc, whose chief executive, Sultan Al Jaber, controversially will preside over the climate summit, has also set itself a methane leak target far higher than the level it claims it has already reached. Al Jaber recently urged countries and companies to be "brutally honest" about the inadequacy of global action to fight the climate crisis.
Al Jaber is tasked with leading countries at Cop28 to deliver the climate action desperately needed, with extreme weather damaging lives across the world. He has previously been backed by the US and EU but has also faced calls to step down.
Critics say the revelations, and the UAE's huge planned expansion of oil and gas production against scientific advice, show the "opposite of leadership" and undermine Al Jaber's credibility.
Methane is responsible for about a quarter of global heating, and leaks from fossil fuel exploitation are a key source. Cutting these emissions is a fast and low-cost way to slow the temperature rise.
The UN's climate body has required countries to submit their methane emissions every two years since 2014. The UAE has not submitted any reports, unlike other Middle Eastern oil states including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Oman.
In July, Al Jaber called on countries to update another type of submission to the UN, climate action plans called nationally determined contributions.
Cutting methane emissions from oil and gas production is seen as a vital part of climate action, and Adnoc announced in October 2022 that it would aim by 2025 to limit leaks to less than 0.15% of the gas produced.
However, the company's estimate of its level of emissions for 2022 was 0.07%, announced after an Adnoc board meeting chaired by the UAE crown prince, Khaled bin Mohamed bin Zayed.
The 0.15% methane target is also higher than the level achieved in 2019 by Qatar (0.06%) and Saudi Arabia (0.14%), according to a recently published satellite analysis by scientists at Harvard University in the US.
The study estimated the UAE's methane leaks in 2019 at 3.3% and said "these high values [in UAE and other nations] reflect leaky infrastructure combined with deliberate venting or incomplete flaring of gas".
Adnoc reported its total methane emissions from upstream oil and gas operations in 2021 as being 38,000 tonnes. This represents 3% of the UAE's total methane emissions from such operations, according to data from the International Energy Agency. This appears to contrast with data showing that Adnoc is responsible for 62% of all upstream oil and gas in the UAE.
In July, Adnoc brought forward its overall "net zero" emissions target from 2050 to 2045. However, this includes only the emissions resulting from operating its exploration and production facilities, which are called scope 1 and 2 emissions, and not the far greater scope 3 emissions resulting from the burning of the oil and gas it sells.
A recent estimate found Adnoc's operational emissions were just 7% of the total. Ten other oil companies have made net zero pledges that include all emissions, according to the energy consultancy Wood Mackenzie. Al Jaber said in July: "We need to attack all emissions, everywhere. [Scope] 1, 2 and 3."
Kjell Kühne, a researcher with the Leave it in the Ground Initiative, said: "The UAE wishes to lead the world on climate this year, and methane is a litmus test. Building new fossil gas projects, setting incoherent targets and failing to properly report methane emissions are three ways Abu Dhabi is showing the opposite of leadership.
"The biggest leadership failure is on scope 3 emissions. Even the best PR in the world cannot hide the fact that we will not save the climate with more fossil fuels. Actions, not words are required from an aspiring leader at this point."
Gareth Redmond-King, at the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit in the UK, said: "Leadership is core to the difficult and demanding job of the Cop presidency. No one expects that to mean the host country is perfect, but leadership does require some credibility both in terms of ambition and delivery.
"So Dr Al Jaber's leadership role - urging others to go further on their ambition and delivery - is not made any easier by the UAE not even having submitted reports on their own methane emissions for nearly a decade. It certainly does nothing to disprove accusations that his role as president of Cop28 is incompatible with his role as CEO of the state oil and gas company."
A spokesperson for Adnoc said: "Our 2022 upstream [scope 1 and 2] emissions data confirmed Adnoc as one of the least carbon-intensive producers in the world. Collaboration and innovation will be key to addressing scope 3 emissions and we are working with our customers to help them transition to new energies. In Adnoc, we aim to achieve zero methane emissions by 2030."
The company intends to deliver well below the target of 0.15% by 2025, he said. "A world-leading methane intensity target should not be confused with the actual (lower) intensity that we aim to deliver, as we are committed to reducing [it] to the lowest possible level."
The media office for Cop28 did not respond to a request for comment. Al Jaber, who is also the chair of the UAE renewable energy group Masdar, told the Guardian in July: "Phasing down fossil fuels is inevitable and it is essential - it's going to happen. [But] you can't unplug the world from the current energy system before you build the new energy system." He did not specify a timescale for the phasing down of fossil fuels.
Masdar has hired a new PR company, Politico reported recently, whose work will include seeking "politically influential individuals" to act "as independent, third-party endorsers and supporters of the UAE, Dr Al Jaber and Cop28".
The UAE increased the ambition of its national climate pledges recently. However, the pledge would still allow UAE's carbon emissions to increase up to 2030, and the independent Climate Action Tracker consortium rated the UAE's plans as "insufficient".
The Guardian revealed in June that Adnoc had been able to read emails to and from the Cop28 climate summit office.
The Guardian also reported on an army of fake social media accounts promoting and defending the UAE's hosting of Cop28. In May, Al Jaber was accused of attempting to "greenwash" his image after members of his team edited Wikipedia pages.
David Tong, of Oil Change International, said: "It seems unlikely that an oil executive could persuade countries to phase down oil and gas when his own company is busy scaling up oil and gas production. The best way for the UAE to confront its crisis in credibility is to ensure that Cop28 adopts a comprehensive energy transformation package - which requires a full, fast, fair, fossil fuel phase out."
#101
Tuvalu's climate minister has declared that "opening, subsidising and exporting fossil fuels is immoral and unacceptable", just a day after Australia ratified a climate and security deal with the low-lying Pacific nation.
The Australian prime minister, Anthony Albanese, welcomed the agreement with Tuvalu on Wednesday, saying Pacific island countries were "fully aware of the commitment that we have to climate action" but gas would continue to play a role.
On Thursday, Tuvalu's climate change minister, Maina Talia, joined several First Nations leaders from across Pacific to call on Australia to set an urgent deadline for an end to fossil fuels.
Speaking on the sidelines of the Pacific Islands Forum (Pif) talks in Tonga, he said he supported the push for a fossil fuel non-proliferation treaty because he knew that fossil fuels were "killing us".
"Opening, subsidising and exporting fossil fuels is immoral and unacceptable," he said.
"If this [Pif leaders' meeting] aims for regional prosperity, we must address climate justice, sea level rise and the root cause of climate change, which is the burning of fossil fuels."
Environmental groups have mobilised on the sidelines of the Pif summit to call for Australia to stop new coal and gas projects and curb fossil fuel exports.
Albanese defended the pace of Australia's transition plans when he and the Tuvalu prime minister, Feleti Teo, ratified their new agreement on Wednesday.
The agreement recognises that Tuvalu is especially vulnerable to sea level rise and commits the two countries "to work together in the face of the existential threat posed by climate change".
From next year, Australia is offering to issue 280 visas to people from Tuvalu who wish to live, work, study or visit the country.
Australia is obliged to respond to requests for help if Tuvalu has to deal with a major natural disaster, a pandemic or military aggression.
In return for this security guarantee, Australia has the right to veto Tuvalu's security cooperation with other countries, although Tuvalu could choose to terminate the treaty entirely if it objects to such intervention.
Recently published analysis found Australia was the third biggest fossil fuel exporter on an energy basis in 2021, trailing only Russia and the US.
Teo said on Wednesday the treaty did not include any specific commitment to stop any new coal and gas projects in Australia.
"But the spirit of the treaty does give us comfort that Australia will do whatever is within Australia's capacity to assist Tuvalu and the region's efforts to combat climate change," he said at a press conference with Albanese.
Albanese said the region was aware of Australia's commitment, including ensuring 82% of its energy supply was renewable by 2030. The government has a target of a 43% cut in emissions on 2005 levels by 2030, on the way to net zero by 2050.
#102
Barnaby Joyce has labelled the estimated cost of net zero "utterly untenable", further undermining the Coalition's commitment ahead of a motion at the Nationals conference to abolish its policy of reaching net zero by 2050.
In a speech before question time on Thursday, Joyce, a member of the shadow cabinet, encouraged debate on the motion put by his federal electorate council in New England and likened the estimated $7-$9tn cost of net zero to the Marshall plan after the second world war.
The deputy leader of the opposition in the Senate, Michaelia Cash, rejected the push, telling reporters that "our position is very, very clear".
"Under Peter Dutton, we are committed to net zero," she said. "Full stop, that's it."
But the leader of the Nationals in the Senate, Bridget McKenzie, added fuel to the controversy by noting net zero is "pretty expensive" and accusing Labor of carpeting regional areas with solar panels and transmission lines.
The deputy Nationals leader, Perin Davey, took a more cautious approach, suggesting the conference debate should be allowed but noting the importance of keeping access to markets that demand net zero commitments.
The motion - which some party sources interpret as a strategic strike intended to destabilise David Littleproud's leadership - has alarmed moderate Liberals because the Nationals abandoning net zero would reopen an acrimonious internal Coalition discussion about climate policy.
Joyce told the House of Representatives that "power prices are the cement that keep the economic house together".
"If they are not viable the economic house falls over.
"Net Zero Australia, which includes University of Queensland and the University of Melbourne, have put the cost of 2050 2060 target at $7tn to $9tn. That is more than the redevelopment cost of Western Europe after the second world war under the Marshall plan. It is completely and utterly untenable."
In its How to Make Net Zero Happen report, released in July, Net Zero Australia projected a $9tn cumulative cost over 37 years for the economic transition, including investment in renewables, transmission and storage, and use of gas peaking plants to phase out coal.
This would come mostly "from business, and some from households", it said. "Governments will need to spend billions to unlock trillions."
Joyce targeted the blowout in Snowy Hydro 2.0 costs from $2bn to $12bn as an example of the "untenable" cost of net zero.
"I know little about watts but lots about politics - and the sentiment towards this renewable nirvana is completely and utterly changing," he said.
"The battle will be lost over time, because that is the example all around the world."
McKenzie told reporters in Canberra that although she had "never argued the science" of climate change she had asked "who pays".
"It will be rural and regional communities and industries that have to do the heavy lifting as we move to net zero over coming decades.
"To ignore that ... [to say] that it was somehow going to be net zero is net zero pain was a farce."
McKenzie said she was glad the public debate had shifted to how to assist communities "take advantage of opportunities" and overcome "real challenges" of the transition.
McKenzie declined to say if the net zero target should be retained, but accused climate change and energy minister, Chris Bowen, of "running around the country saying we're going to carpet you with wind farms, solar panels and transmission lines".
She said that Labor had "slashed" regional funds that the Nationals had secured in negotiations to adopt the net zero target in 2021, a move she called "offensive".
Earlier, Davey told Guardian Australia that the Nationals are "great" and as a "grassroots party" would have a "robust debate" on net zero at their conference.
"I welcome any motions that are brought forward by the branches ... It will be interesting, I'm particularly looking forward to hearing the views of my state parliamentary colleagues."
"[Our policy] is still officially net zero and it will be a very interesting debate to see where it lands."
Davey said a "key" issue at play was ensuring "we can continue to have access to international markets, and [they] are demanding countries have a net zero target".
But she said she "completely" understood the argument that transmission lines impact landowners.
#103
The UK installed a record number of public electric car chargers in 2023 as the size of network of ultra-rapid chargers for longer journeys doubled.
Almost 16,000 public chargers were installed in the year to 12 December, pushing the total above 53,200, according to the data company ZapMap. That represented a 43% increase on 2022, significantly faster than the last three years.
Increasing the number of public chargers is one of the key challenges facing every country in the world in the switch from polluting petrol and diesel cars to electric vehicles.
The increase in UK chargers during 2023 has almost certainly outstripped the growth of electric car sales, which were up by 28% in the year to November compared with the previous 12 months.
Nevertheless, the number of chargers will need to continue its rapid rate of increase in the coming years, as rules known as the zero emissions vehicles (Zev) mandate force carmakers to sell rapidly increasing numbers of electric cars. The rules suggest 80% of UK car sales will be electric by 2030, despite Rishi Sunak's decision in September to delay the ban on new petrol and diesel car sales from 2030 until 2035.
The continued rise in charger numbers will be vital to reduce "range anxiety" - the fear that drivers will not be able to find one to top up their battery.
Melanie Shufflebotham, the co-founder and chief operating officer of Zapmap, said growth in the number of faster chargers would help to reduce range anxiety. The number of the fastest "ultra-rapid" chargers doubled during 2023 to more than 4,600.
"There are now more than 10,000 rapid/ultra-rapid devices at 5,000 locations across the UK to support charging on longer journeys," said Shufflebotham. "These can be found not just in motorway service areas or fuel forecourts but in many different types of locations, such as retail car parks and farm shops."
Andy Palmer, the chief executive of the EV charger provider Pod Point and a former boss of Aston Martin, said range anxiety was slowing the transition from petrol and diesel to electric, as it made some buyers hesitate before switching to a battery car.
However, Palmer, who also led the introduction of the Leaf electric car as Nissan's No 2 executive, said the anxiety could be addressed by more chargers and that at 200 miles or greater, the ranges of cars being built today were big enough for most people.
"Practically, range anxiety is more of a perception problem, solved by a proliferation of public charging points, rather than an actual problem," he said. "It's important that charging infrastructure is able to counter that perception so that motorists can see the charging points in place and put their minds at ease."
Palmer added that the key was ensuring people were "given peace of mind to carry out longer journeys".
Ultra-rapid chargers are generally found near motorways and main roads to help people on longer journeys. However, the number of slow chargers being installed will also be crucial. Because of the lower power requirements, slow chargers are particularly attractive for people in towns and cities who do not have off-street parking to charge cheaply overnight.
Last year, the government under Boris Johnson announced a target of 300,000 publicly available chargers by 2030. If sustained, a 43% growth rate would easily hit that target, although in practice it would become steadily harder to install more as the best locations were taken. Companies hoping to install more of ultra-rapid chargers on main routes are also concerned that the rate of installation will diminish because of the slow pace of upgrades to the UK's electricity grid.
There are also still large gaps in the charger network. Northern Ireland had only 23 chargers per 100,000 people in October, compared with 42 per 100,000 in north-west England, the next worst region.
London has 193 public chargers per 100,000, by far the best provision in the UK, although its need is also high because of the large number of car owners without off-street parking.
#104

To launch his campaign for US Senate, Zach Shrewsbury chose the site of one of America's most famous hangings.
Charles Town, West Virginia, was where state authorities executed the abolitionist John Brown after he led an attack on a federal armory a few miles down the road in Harpers Ferry, a pivotal moment in the lead-up to the civil war. One hundred and sixty four years later, Shrewsbury - who decided against attempting to get a permit for the event at the site of the insurrection, which is now a national park - stood on the courthouse grounds where Brown's hanging took place to announce that he would be the only "real Democrat" running to represent West Virginia in the Senate next year.
"We need leaders that are cut from the working-class cloth. We need representation that will go toe to toe with corporate parasites and their bought politicians. We need a leader who will not waver in the face of these powers that keep the boot on our neck," Shrewsbury said to applause from the small group of supporters gathered behind him.
"So, as John Brown said, 'These men are all talk. What we need is action.' I'm taking action right now to stand up to these bought bureaucrats."
The remarks were a swipe at Joe Manchin, the Democratic senator who for the past 13 years had managed to represent what has become one of the most Republican states in the nation. In recent years he has used his power as a swing vote in Congress to stop several of Joe Biden's legislative priorities - attracting the ire of progressives and prompting Shrewsbury to mount a primary challenge.
A few weeks after Shrewsbury began campaigning, he was showing a friend around an abandoned mining town when his phone rang with news: Manchin had decided not to seek re-election, leaving Shrewsbury as the only Democrat in the race.
By all indications, Shrewsbury, a 32-year-old Marine Corps veteran and community organizer, faces a difficult, if not impossible, road to victory. West Virginia gave Donald Trump his second-biggest margin of support of any state in the nation three years ago, and Manchin is the last Democrat holding a statewide office. Political analysts do not expect voters to elect the Democratic candidate - whoever that turns out to be - and predict Manchin will be replaced by either Governor Jim Justice or Congressman Alex Mooney, the two leading Republicans in the Senate race.
Shrewsbury's message to them is: not so fast.
"People were really sold on the fact that Joe Manchin could be the only Democrat that could win in West Virginia, and I very much disagree," Shrewsbury told the Guardian a week after the senator made his announcement.
Also a former governor, Manchin is considered the most conservative Democrat in the Senate, and when the party took the majority by a single vote in the chamber in 2021, Manchin stopped the Biden administration from passing policies that would have made permanent a program to reduce child poverty, and more forcefully fight climate change.
Sitting in a conference room at the Fayette county Democratic party's headquarters in Oak Hill, where visitors pass a lobby displaying an American flag, a pride flag, and a stack of Narcan, the opioid-overdose reversal medication, Shrewsbury outlined his plans to run a campaign distinctly to the left of Manchin's policies - and one he believes can win.
"People want someone who's genuine. They don't want a politician. They want someone who actually looks like them. I mean, hell, you can't get much more West Virginia than this," said Shrewsbury, fond of wearing flannel shirts and hunting caps.
Among his priorities are creating universal healthcare and childcare programs, and reducing the role of incarceration in fighting the opioid epidemic ravaging West Virginia.
"Everyone here just is thankful for the scraps or crumbs that we get from whoever we elect. And that's who we keep electing - whoever can keep the little crumbs coming along. I'm trying to say there is a better way," Shrewsbury said.
He also doesn't shy away from identifying as a socialist, arguing the term may be less politically damaging than it appears - West Virginia Democrats voted for Bernie Sanders in the 2016 presidential primary, and the independent senator, he argues, is popular even with the state's Republicans.
"If caring about working-class people, caring about people having bodily autonomy, water rights, workers' rights, makes you a socialist, then call me whatever you want. Doesn't bother me," Shrewsbury said.
Raised on a farm by a Republican family in rural Monroe county, Shrewsbury dropped out of college after a semester and joined the marines. In the years that followed, he guarded the perimeter at the US base in Guantánamo Bay, and was deployed to Japan, Malaysia and South Korea before eventually moving to Seattle and then returning to West Virginia, where he realized how bereft his home state was of the prosperity he saw elsewhere in the country and overseas.
"Why can't my home be as economically profitable as the rest?" Shrewsbury recalls thinking. "It woke me up in the Marine Corps a little bit, and once I got back home, I really just kind of put the nail in the coffin there for what I was gonna be for work. I want to help people."
He turned to community organizing, seeing it as a way to help a state with the fourth-highest poverty rate in the nation, which is struggling to transition from the declining coal and logging industries that have historically undergirded its economy.
Joe Manchin, who is stepping down at the next election. Photograph: Andrew Harnik/AP
"I know Zach's a long shot. It's like David against three Goliaths," said Pam Garrison, a fellow community organizer. "Zach is able to be hardline when he needs to be. I've seen him being forceful and steadfast in his principles and what things are. And then I've seen the compassionate and empathy side of Zach too, And that's what makes a good politician."
Since 2020, Shrewsbury has helped towns dig out from flooding, door-knocked in the narrow Appalachian valleys - known as hollers - to find out what residents were looking for from the state legislature, and talked to mayors and city councils about the opportunities presented by the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), which incentivizes consumer usage of renewable energy, including home solar panels.
Though Manchin played a key role in authoring the IRA, he also nixed the expanded child tax credit, which has been credited with cutting the child poverty rate by half in 2021, the sole year it was in effect. Shrewsbury was outraged by reports that later emerged of the senator privately expressing worries that people would use the program's money to buy drugs, and jumped into the race.
Despite the state's conservative leanings, Sam Workman, the director of the Institute for Policy Research and Public Affairs at West Virginia University, believed Manchin may have had a path to victory had he decided to run. But he said the same cannot be said for Shrewsbury or any other Democrat.
"It's kind of a fall-on-your-sword moment," Workman said. "Politics is like sports: you should never say never, but I do not see the Democrats winning the Senate seat, no matter who runs."
Shrewsbury may be alone in the Democratic primary at the moment, but he expects other candidates to enter. Since launching his campaign, he has not heard from the state Democratic party, nor the national party's senate campaign arm.
"I'm not exactly what the party wants, because I speak my mind. You know, I'm not going to toe the party line," he said. "I wish the party would get back in more touch with the workers. But like I said, I have the message that many people aren't saying."
#105
Germany's vice-chancellor has called on supporters of environmental reforms to shed their reputation for "moral superiority" and focus on having "the better arguments" amid a backlash against climate policies across Europe.
Robert Habeck, the minister for economic affairs and climate action and a leading Green politician, said environmental parties had to push back against their instincts if they wanted their climate agenda to succeed in the long run.
Historically, he said, the Greens' problem was "the allegation - and with every allegation that sticks there is a grain of truth - of moral superiority, of always knowing it best".
"That's something that dates to the green movement's origins. To survive as a grassroots movement you have to claim to have access to some higher form of truth that others don't. But as we Greens are transitioning to something with a broader political appeal, we are working to reduce that claim to truth and have the better arguments instead."
Habeck's struggles mirror similar developments in the Netherlands, where anger at plans to cut nitrogen pollution led to a shock poll win for a new farmers' protest party, and Britain, where the prime minister, Rishi Sunak, last week announced a U-turn on some of the government's climate commitments.
Habeck proved his ability and popularity in managing the 2022 energy crisis, but has recently struggled in his effort to overhaul Germany's fossil fuel-reliant heating sector.
A proposed ban on the installation of conventional new gas or oil heating systems from 2024, drawn up by Habeck's ministry, came under fire this year and was only approved earlier this month after a protracted period of government infighting.
In a wide-ranging interview, Habeck also defended the decision to pay the energy-intensive German industrial sector large subsidies to smooth its transition to green technologies.
"Our economy is changing," Habeck said. "But it doesn't mean we should willingly accept the loss of our old strengths, namely energy-intensive industries like steel or the chemical industry."
In July, the EU gave Germany the green light to pay steel giant Thyssenkrupp €2bn (£1.7bn) of state subsidies for its proposed climate-neutral plant in Duisburg.
"If we want economic security, we need those industries," said Habeck, a former Green party leader, who has governed in a three-party coalition with Olaf Scholz's Social Democrats and the liberal FDP since December 2021.
Even though Germany fell into a recession last winter, and its economy has stagnated since, Habeck insisted that the country would regain its status as the EU's economic powerhouse.
"It won't be an industrial nation like in the 1960s, when you couldn't hang out your washing in the Ruhr valley because the soot turned everything black. But yes, we will have a highly productive, digital, renewable economy," he said.
"Other regions are powering on too, but we will have many leading businesses and Germany will have renewed its prosperity."
#106
Deep in the confines of the hulking, brutalist headquarters of the US Department of Energy, down one of its long, starkly lit corridors, sits a small, unheralded office that is poised to play a pivotal role in America's shift away from fossil fuels and help the world stave off disastrous global heating.
The department's loan programs office (LPO) was "essentially dormant" under Donald Trump, according to its head, Jigar Shah, quoting energy secretary Jennifer Granholm's description of the office, but has now come roaring back with a huge war chest to bankroll emerging clean energy projects and technology.
Last year's vast Inflation Reduction Act grew the previously moribund office's loan authority to $140bn, while adding a new program worth another $250bn in loan guarantees to retool projects that help cut planet-heating emissions. Which means that Shah, a debonair former clean energy entrepreneur and podcast host who matches his suits with pristine Stan Smiths, oversees resources comparable to the GDP of Norway: all to help turbocharge solar, wind, batteries and a host of other climate technologies in the US.
With a newly divided Congress stymieing any new climate legislation in the foreseeable future, Shah has emerged as one of Washington's most powerful figures in the effort to confront global heating. Shah says such focus on him is "hyperbolic" but the White House is pinning much of its climate agenda on an office that had around 85 people when Shah joined in March 2021. It now has more than 200 staffers as it scrambles to distribute billions in loans to projects across the US.
John Podesta, senior adviser to Joe Biden on clean energy, said that the loans office is "essential to the effective implementation" of the administration's goal to eliminate planet-heating emissions by 2050. "Jigar is laser-focused on working with all levels of government, project sponsors and affected communities to deliver on that mission and realize results for the American people," Podesta said.
"There's a lot of responsibility that's been put on to this office, clearly Congress gave us those additional resources," said Shah, who has been busy connecting the newly enriched loans office with all corners of the emerging clean energy economy, not just wind farms and solar operators.
Shah said there was "some rust on the gears" among those tasked with reanimating the office following the tenure of Trump, a president so wary of even the most lo-fi environmental technology that he complained energy efficient lightbulbs made him look orange and became fixated upon the weak flushing ability of water-saving toilets.
But the clean energy loans now appear to be gaining momentum, with 125 current applications seeking $119bn worth of loans to act as the "bridge to bankability", as Shah puts it. About $2.5bn has been given to Ultium Cells to manufacture lithium-ion batteries for electric cars in three states, $700m could go to a project that will mine lithium in Nevada - despite concerns this will negatively affect a rare flower in the region - and more than $500m for the world's largest facility creating "green" hydrogen, to be used to fuel trucks and industry, in Utah.
"We've left no stone unturned," said Shah, who says he understands the mindset of entrepreneurs, having previously founded the renewable energy companies SunEdison and Generate Capital, as well as being the co-host of The Energy Gang podcast.
"We've called every one of those companies that have been labeled climate tech, whether it's green chemicals, green cement, green steel," he said. "It doesn't matter who it is, we've called them and said, 'Hey, let me introduce you to the loan programs office, so now we can help.'"
This new prominence is set to provoke a stinging Republican backlash, however. To conservatives, the loans office, which was founded in 2005, is forever tarred by the much-criticized decision during Barack Obama's administration to loan $535m to Solyndra, the California solar firm, only for the company to file for bankruptcy two years later, in 2011.
The huge new financial arsenal at the office's disposal risks "Solyndra on steroids", according to Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the incoming Republican chair of the House energy committee. A group of Republicans led by Rodgers have said the new loan authorities "raise questions about increased risks of waste, fraud and abuse, especially if the administration uses the program for its rush-to-green agenda".
Shah, who could well be hauled in front of Rodgers' committee this year, said GOP scrutiny is "totally ordinary and expected" and that the loans office is a more rounded and mature entity than during the Obama years when it still, a year before Solyndra collapsed, notably backed an upstart car company called Tesla with a $465m loan. The failure rate of 3.3% for its loans is about that you'd expect from a prudent bank lender rather than a profligate waster of taxpayer money, Shah points out.
Some level of risk taking will be required if the US is to quickly scale up the sort of clean energy technologies that are regularly devised by Americans but can struggle to get support from investors, Biden's allies argue. "Shah will pick some winners and some losers, that's how it works," said Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House climate change adviser, now with the Progressive Policy Institute.
"If you don't pick any losers you haven't taken on enough risk of picking a big winner. They key is a to pick a few really big winners and with this office there have been more Teslas than Solyndras, by a long shot."
Bledsoe said that the US has traditionally not funneled large amounts of public money into commercializing clean energy technology and "right about now we are wishing we did", due to the emergence of China as the global leader in solar panel, wind turbine and battery production.
The US, after years of happily offshoring such activities, is looking to kickstart domestic manufacturing via the Inflation Reduction Act incentives. "We have to harden our domestic supply chains because we can't replace oil-based transportation with critical minerals-based transportation and be dependent on foreign nations when we can process those minerals ourselves," said Bledsoe.
While the cost of wind and solar power has fallen dramatically over the past decade - to the point new renewable projects are often cheaper than continuing with existing fossil fuel plants - and electric vehicle sales boomed globally last year, there remains a knot of different causes of the climate crisis still awaiting solutions that are at the tipping point of mass adoption.
Heavy trucking, shipping and aviation that can't run yet on batteries require a new fuel source, perhaps hydrogen (the Department of Energy is actively looking to fund clean-running aircraft) that isn't as polluting as oil. Industrial processes such as steel and cement manufacturing are nowhere near to being emissions free.
Even if the US entirely cleans up its electricity grid, it will need thousands of miles of new transmission lines and integrated large-scale batteries to store and distribute the renewable energy to where it's needed. The Department of Energy, meanwhile, is putting billions of dollars into efforts to remove carbon directly from the atmosphere or capture it at source and bury it underground, although this barely scratches the surface - a recent report estimates that 1,300 times more CO2 removal from new technologies is needed globally by 2050 to avoid breaching a 2C rise above pre-industrial temperatures.
The key to much of this is, as John Kerry, the US climate envoy, put it recently, "money, money, money, money, money, money, money". Jessica Jewell, an expert in clean energy at Chalmers University, said that even though the cost of solar and wind "has fallen tremendously over the last couple of decades, growth of low-carbon technologies is still not fast enough to reach our climate goals and has yet to make a significant dent in hard-to-abate sectors like industry and transportation".
"There are many clean energy technologies which are still 'pre-commercial' which means they cannot compete without significant support," Jewell added. "Without these technologies, even the growth of wind and solar power may stall or don't have the required effect on bringing emissions down."
Shah said he is confident major strides are being made on hydrogen fuels and that that it is a "foregone conclusion" that 100m tons of CO2 will be captured and buried by US industry due to carbon management investments.
But he thinks much more needs to be done in nuclear, such as the development of small modular reactors, as well as advanced geothermal, where steam from reservoirs of underground hot water is harnessed to run power plants. He frets that the US is short of a million tradespeople to engineer the mass electrification of everything that currently runs on fossil fuels, and that the transmission lines aren't being built quickly enough.
"I think there's a lot of work to be done in some of those areas," Shah said. "When you think about the enormity of the challenges that we're faced with, that are all prerequisite ingredients to a successful climate deployment, there's a lot of work to do."
Shah, who is 48, was born in Gujarat, India, and moved to the US when be was one. He now has a seven-year-old son of his own who adds a certain urgency to his father's work. "He is asking me tougher questions every month - he says, 'Hey, are you doing enough on these issues? Hey, why is there exhaust coming out of the car in front of me? Why don't they have an electric car?' I'm like, 'We're working on that,'" Shah said.
Aside from the pressure exerted by Republicans - and his son - Shah also has to grapple with the existential imperative of a ticking climate timebomb. The last eight years were the hottest ever reliably recorded on Earth but they will appear almost frigid in the future if the US, the world's biggest ever carbon emitter, doesn't give up its fossil fuel habit.
"You feel that pressure," Shah said. "I hold myself to outcomes. I don't hold myself to best efforts. I feel like there's a lot of people who are like, 'Well, I gave it my best.' And I was like, 'Well, I mean, that's not enough. You either have reduced climate emissions or you haven't.'
"And it does weigh on you. I mean, I sleep well at night, I recognize that good sleep is a good thing. But I do put a lot of pressure on myself and my team, because I think we are up to the challenge. And I think that if not us, then who?"
#107

BP is under pressure from a hedge fund to ditch a strategy that will see it cut its oil and gas output in favour of investing in clean energy.
London-based Bluebell Capital Partners has written to BP arguing that the FTSE 100 energy company's strategy has depressed its share price and presumed a "drastic decline in oil and gas demand, which we consider to be utterly unrealistic".
BP was already undergoing significant changes under former chief executive Bernard Looney, who had set a course to cut oil output by a quarter compared with 2019 levels by the end of the decade - making it the only oil major to pledge to cut output, albeit having reduced its ambitions.
The company has also invested in green energy such as solar, wind and biofuels, and it is looking at green hydrogen production as it considers ways to make money once oil demand falls.
Looney was ousted as chief executive in September after admitting he failed to fully inform the BP board about relationships with colleagues. He was later formally dismissed and denied more than £32m in pay and share awards over "serious misconduct".
However, BP is still run by supporters of Looney's strategy. Chairman Helge Lund appointed Looney's former finance boss, Murray Auchincloss, as chief executive.
Bluebell co-founders Giuseppe Bivona and Marco Taricco wrote in their letter that they would have called for Looney's resignation had he not left. The letter was sent in October, shortly after it acquired a small stake in BP.
Bluebell is a relatively small but influential fund which has previously mounted campaigns against French food company Danone, where it played a part in the departure of its chief executive, as well as in Glencore, where it failed in its efforts to have the UK-listed commodities company sell its thermal coal operations. However, it only manages about $150m across a dozen or so companies, meaning it does not have the financial might to force BP into a shareholder vote.
Bivona told the Guardian that the company was made up of "passionate environmentalists", and that the fund manager was "not telling BP to stay away from clean energy".
However, he said he wanted BP to "stay away from businesses in which they have no right to win" and where investment returns are low, such as solar and offshore wind.
In the 30-page letter, which was first reported by the Financial Times, Bluebell argued that BP was worth 50% more than its share price implied, and called for it to increase production in the next few years and pledge only to cut emissions "in line with society". BP's shares traded at 466p on Monday, valuing the company at £79bn.
Bluebell's calls for a change in strategy will face opposition from BP's leadership and also from environmentalists, many of whom argue that the company is still not doing enough to cut emissions. The International Energy Agency in 2021 said that no new oil and gas fields should be drilled if the world is to limit temperature increases.
Mark van Baal, head of Dutch activist group Follow This, has in recent years forced shareholder votes at BP, Shell, Chevron and ExxonMobil calling for stronger emissions reduction targets.
ExxonMobil is taking legal action to try to dismiss a resolution for its next annual meeting.
Van Baal questioned whether Bluebell would gain much shareholder support, and argued that BP's share price under performance versus peers was related to its decision to cut its dividend in 2020.
"We don't think responsible shareholders will allow a conservative investor to slow down a transition that is already moving far too slowly," he said.
"Letters don't change companies; shareholders' votes do. Let them file a shareholder resolution and see how many shareholders support going back in time. We don't think they will get much votes."
A BP spokesperson said the company "welcomes constructive engagement with our shareholders" and that it has received support for its strategy after recent meetings with most major shareholders.
The spokesperson said: "We continue to make significant progress, remain focused on delivery, and are confident the strategy will grow the value of BP and deliver sustainable long-term value for shareholders."
#108
The German government has staved off a power battle that threatened to cause the ruling coalition to implode after finally agreeing an 11th-hour amendment to a controversial new heating law.
Negotiations over the legislation have dominated the headlines for weeks, with the economy minister, Robert Habeck, of the Greens clashing with the pro-liberal Free Democratic party (FDP) over how much consumers should be burdened with the costs of replacing fossil fuel heating systems with cleaner, climate-neutral energy.
Environmental groups have criticised the revision of the law, arguing it will delay Germany's ambitions to reach net zero targets by many years.
Under the original proposals - to which all three members of the coalition signed up, but to which the FDP subsequently voiced its opposition - from January heating systems replaced in existing buildings had to be green, such as heat pumps or systems drawing at least 65% of their energy from clean sources such as wind or solar power, rather than gas or oil. Every new-build would have had to comply with the rule.
Under the new proposals the onus is shifting from individual households to municipal authorities, which will be expected to scale up their goals for district heating planning, which often draws on geothermal energy, and to assess the needs of every household, including their suitability for connection to such a system.
Pressure was on the coalition to reach agreement in time for the energy law to be put to the parliament, or Bundestag, before 7 July, its last sitting before the summer recess. The draft law will start its passage through parliament this week.
Instead of stiff rules, Habeck said, the coalition now had a set of "guidelines" that would help households transition to renewable energy. "In this way we're giving people more time ... I think this is the right thing to do and is completely in keeping with my interest," he said in Berlin.
The chancellor, Olaf Scholz, of the Social Democrats (SPD), said the coalition had experienced "judders" over the intense, often angry debate that had accompanied the creation of the draft, but that "this has now juddered to a conclusion".
Under the new law, if it is passed, people will still be allowed to install gas heaters from 1 January if they can be converted to hydrogen, including in new buildings, a clause the FDP insisted on. However, in zones of new development heating systems will have to use 65% renewable energy or more.
For all other homes and buildings, this requirement will only apply once municipal authorities have presented their heating plans, which they are required to do by 2028.
With those plans in place, homeowners would then be in a position to decide which system to switch to, whether a heat pump - the preference of the Greens - district heating, or a gas heater able to be converted to run on hydrogen.
A record number of heat pumps have been installed in Germany since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which led to the dramatic stoppage of Russian pipeline gas to Germany. However, despite technical developments, they are still often deemed unsuitable for older homes and cost between €25,000 (£21,400) and €40,000 (£34,200) to install, which despite generous government subsidies is too expensive for many households. In addition, a shortage of technical parts and of engineers capable of installing them has made access to them a challenge.
Systems using wood and pellets will continue to be allowed.
The switch to cleaner energy systems, estimated to cost €9.2bn (£7.8bn) a year until 2028, falling to €5bn (£4.3bn) a year from then on, is to be subsidised from the government's climate and transformation fund, with levels of support tailored to individuals' needs.
#109
Australia's biggest power consumer has said it plans to switch to a largely renewable energy supply in 2029 in a move that energy analysts say would greatly reduce carbon emissions in New South Wales.
Tomago Aluminium, Australia's largest aluminium smelter, is reportedly in talks with renewable energy suppliers ahead of the expiry of its current energy contract with AGL in 2028.
The company's chief executive, Matt Howell, told the Australian Financial Review the goal for the smelter near Newcastle was to be "for all intents and purposes 100% renewable" by 2029.
"There's further improvement on the cost of the equation to go before firmed renewables is a viable option for us, but we are perpetually optimistic; I think we'll get there," he said.
Simon Holmes à Court, a senior adviser to the Climate and Energy College at Melbourne University and a clean energy commentator, said it was a significant announcement from Howell, who in the past has questioned the cost of running a smelter entirely on renewables and expressed support for a government-funded gas-fired power station in the Hunter.
"It would have a huge impact on NSW emissions if they greened up that smelter," he said.
Holmes a Court said Tomago Aluminium used about 11% of the energy of the NSW grid.
Tomago Aluminium is managed as an independent joint venture by Rio Tinto, CSR and Hydro Aluminium.
Holmes à Court said there could be further significant emissions cuts and investment in new energy infrastructure if other smelters that were backed largely by coal contracts, such as Rio Tinto's Boyne Smelters in Gladstone, also made the switch.
Smelters use about 10% of the energy of the east coast grid.
He said it was increasingly likely steel and aluminium manufacturers would transition to green energy contracts as the European Union and other export markets look to introduce carbon border adjustment mechanisms (CBAM) from as early as 2026.
"They'll be locked out of a large number of significant markets if they don't decarbonise," Holmes à Court said. "Tomago could sign a zero emissions power contract at a significantly lower cost than they pay now before the mooted 2026 EU CBAM."
Dan Gocher, the director of climate and environment at the Australasian Centre for Corporate Responsibility, said the announcement should signal the end for AGL's Bayswater power station, which is scheduled to close in 2035.
"Without its largest customer, AGL is unlikely to make a profit from Bayswater beyond 2029," Gocher said. "The owners of Tomago ... should be applauded for this outcome. Such decisions de-risk Australian industry in the face of carbon border adjustment mechanisms."
Sam Mella, the Hunter engagement lead for Beyond Zero Emissions, said Tomago's announcement was a strong sign for the future of manufacturing in the region.
"This will keep our local industry competitive in the global market and reinforces our vision to establish the Hunter as the first renewable energy industrial precinct in Australia," she said.
"Tomago's commitment shows the potential for the Hunter to become the electric motor of the Australian economy and the importance of meeting customer demand for a zero-carbon future."
Comment was sought from Tomago Aluminium.
AGL's chief operating officer, Markus Brokhof, said the company was committed to the Hunter region and was progressing plans to "transform our thermal generation sites into low-carbon integrated industrial energy hubs".
"This includes progress on a grid-scale battery, wind, solar and thermal storage system and a waste to energy facility, while also exploring the feasibility of pumped hydro at Bell's Mountain," he said.
Brokhof said there were no changes planned for the closure dates of AGL's coal-fired power stations.
#110
The UK's low carbon economy is now worth more than £200bn, almost four times the size of the country's manufacturing sector, with growth expected to accelerate in the coming years, according to new analysis.
Despite what experts say has been lacklustre and patchy support from central government, the analysis found more than 75,000 businesses from wind turbine manufacturers to recycling plants employ more than 1.2 million people in the green economy.
Experts say the sector not only has the potential to help tackle the climate crisis but also create sustainable jobs and improve people's quality of life - with cleaner transport, reduced air pollution and better insulated homes.
But they warn that if the UK is to make the necessary rapid and fair transition to a low carbon economy, the government must mobilise all sections of society - from trade unions to local authorities, community groups to businesses - behind a "national programme of transformation".
Prof Patrick Devine-Wright, of Exeter University and a lead author with the IPCC, said: "We need everybody to pull together or we have no chance of meeting these ambitious targets and staving off what are going to be really, really damaging climate consequences."
He said in the coming years many day-to-day aspects of people's lives would need to change, from the way homes are heated to how people get around town and cities, from what they eat to where they work.
"We need nothing less than a societal process of transformation in place alongside this vision of new technology, devices and infrastructures," said Devine-Wright. "Unless we connect all those dots up, I don't think it is going to happen in the timescale that is required."
Today's research shows that the low carbon sector is worth £205.7bn in the UK. Using a similar methodology, kMatrix found the manufacturing sector is worth £55.6bn and the construction sector is worth £132.9bn.
Wind, wave and tidal, and solar power have all grown rapidly in recent years, according to the data, which shows that overall the low carbon sector grew by 7.4% during the financial year 2018/19 to 2019/20 and contracted by -9.0% during 2019/20 to 2020/21 but is expected to bounce back in the post-Covid recovery.
Over the next week, the Guardian will highlight low carbon schemes and projects around the UK - from regenerative farmers to private recycling companies, via hydrogen jet fuel, net zero whisky, retrofitting builders, and hemp milk - showing how they are not only helping reduce emissions but also improving communities, creating jobs and improving living conditions.
But the current ad hoc nature of the low carbon economy, with some sectors and regions racing ahead while others are being left behind, has raised fears that existing inequalities could be entrenched unless the government sets out a clear plan.
Experts say trade unions, local authorities and communities must be given a direct role in the process, especially in areas that are dependent on high carbon industries, to ensure the move to a green economy is rapid and fair.
Hannah Martin, of campaign group Green New Deal UK, said there was now "a rich tapestry of climate focused community activity" with "people coming together to build resilient communities that will be the blueprint for how we live in the future".
She highlighted a range of projects, from communal food gardens to regional home retrofit programmes. But she warned: "Change at the community level cannot be done in isolation from a holistic strategy at the speed and scale required from the central government, which must both provide the regulatory support and finance required for local communities to innovate and create responses to the climate crisis that are unique to their situation and experience. "
The UK government has been widely criticised for its failure to set out detailed policy proposals to meet its ambitious climate targets.
Nick Molho, the executive director of Aldersgate Group, an alliance of business and policy leaders, said that for the net zero transition to deliver jobs to local communities across the UK, the Government's upcoming net zero strategy should include close collaboration with local authorities and community groups.
Molho called for a UK-wide body to "support the workforce as the UK economy moves to net zero emissions" backed by by local transition bodies - made up of local industry, government, unions, and educational sector representatives.
"[They] could be tasked with carefully planning the changes needed in their areas to support a successful transition to net zero emissions," he said.
During the buildup to the key climate meeting in Glasgow later this year, ministers have faced widespread criticism for a string of failures that include trying to open a new coalmine, issuing new licences for oil and gas exploration in the North Sea, pushing ahead with a £27bn road-building plan, scrapping the green homes grant insulation programme, and cutting overseas aid.
Last month, the government's own climate advisers criticised the lack of policy detail, with the chief executive of the Climate Change Committee, Chris Stark, saying "progress was illusory".
Ed Miliband, who is heading Labour's climate team, said that the failure of the government to grasp the challenge and opportunities offered by moving rapidly to a low carbon economy was holding back communities across the UK.
"Tackling the climate emergency could transform our society and our economy, creating new jobs wherever people live, growing British industries and making our businesses more competitive," the shadow business secretary said. "It could clean up our air, protect nature, ensure everyone has a warm home with affordable energy bills, and help to tackle the deep inequalities we face between our regions."
He said "there were lots of green shoots across the country" but argued this was thanks to "imaginative people, communities and businesses" rather than a comprehensive plan from central government.
"To truly transform our economy, we need government to show leadership and bring forward a green investment plan equal to the scale of the emergency we face and the task of economic transformation."
The report, by analysts kMatrix Data Services, which produces annual assessments of the low carbon economy for businesses, academics and local authorities including the Greater London Authority, was based on 900 data sources from government, the private sector and academia. It used a different methodology to the Office for National Statistics annual assessment of the green economy, including supply chains and networks and includes a broader category of sectors from wind and solar power to geothermal and water and wastewater treatment.
The report's author, Sarah Howard, of kMatrix, said: "This data, by examining the full extent of the low carbon economy from the grassroots up, shows us just how important it already is for the UK economy and the progress already made.
"It also illustrates the chains and networks of supply are present and scalable, enabling the significant growth required in the wider sector. What we need now is a comprehensive policy framework and the required rapid growth can be achieved.
#111
The New South Wales government has rejected industry criticism its approvals of renewable energy projects lag other states, saying planning had finalised support for 18 significant wind, solar and battery projects in 2023.
The defence came as federal, state and territory energy ministers gather in Canberra for the first meeting of 2024 on Friday. Speeding up the rollout of renewable energy along with an updated national hydrogen strategy are understood to be on the agenda.
In data released to Guardian Australia, the Minns government said the 18 projects given support last year would generate enough clean energy to power more than 1.5m homes with a combined capacity of 7.6 gigawatts of generation and storage.
More than 3,000 jobs would also result during construction and operation of those projects, with 8.3m tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions avoided each year. These include Virya Energy's proposed 1.5GW Yanco Delta windfarm with 208 turbines in the Riverina region, which would be Australia's largest.
"These approvals represent the NSW government's commitment to accelerate the transition to renewables so households and businesses have reliable access to clean and affordable electricity," said the energy minister, Penny Sharpe.
"NSW is now about halfway towards our 2030 renewable generation target, and over a quarter of the way there on our long-duration storage target."
The pace of renewable energy's introduction will feature prominently at Friday's energy ministers gathering. A capacity investment scheme, proposed by the Albanese government last November, will be among the agenda items, Guardian Australia understands.
Setting national standards for so-called distributed energy resources and customer energy resources to support the growing spread of rooftop solar panels and home batteries will also be discussed. Also on the agenda will be details of an updated national hydrogen strategy.
Lily D'Ambrosio, Victoria's energy minister, will also brief counterparts about this month's severe storms that knocked out a key transmission line and blew over power poles, cutting off power to about half a million homes. The event underscored the need for greater resilience of electricity networks, an issue Victoria had pressed in meetings last year.
A spokesperson for the federal energy minister, Chris Bowen, declined to comment ahead of Friday's meeting.
The reliability of the power grid may again be tested later on Thursday. An actual so-called level one lack of reserve event was reported in NSW by the market operator as temperatures in parts of Sydney reached 40C in a late-summer heatwave, pushing up electricity demand.
Renewable investors had singled out NSW as the state with some of the highest hurdles to clear to get projects to completion. Late last year, the state's planning department surprised some in the industry with a map that appeared to discourage windfarms, even from parts of its designated renewable energy zones. The map was later revised.
The Clean Energy Investment Group also recently released a report calling for "greater approval and timing certainty for clean energy projects".
It said windfarms in NSW were taking an average 3,488 days for approval - or almost 10 years - with solar farms taking 705 days. Battery projects needed 540 days, while hydro and transmission projects were taking 492 days on average.
Simon Corbell, the group's chief executive, said on Thursday he "strongly" welcomed the finalising of planning assessments, particularly for the Yanco Delta windfarm.
"However, the total number of wind projects approved remains low, compared to solar and battery storage," Corbell said. "Onshore wind energy is the lowest cost form of new utility scale generation available today and will play a central role as thermal coal continues to exit the system."
Corbell's group wants to see the NSW government further expedite planning assessment in the draft energy assessment guidelines currently under consideration. Of particular concern are changes to the proposed visual amenity assessment criteria for wind projects, he said.
Nicholas Aberle, a Clean Energy Council director, said NSW had had "a patchy few years in terms of project approvals, especially wind farms and has historically been much slower than other states".
"The approvals in the last few months have been a welcome change, but this pace needs to be maintained," Aberle said.
"The NSW government's current review of planning guidelines for wind farms needs to deliver a framework that is fit for the purpose of ensuring renewable energy projects are built at the pace needed to replace ageing coal power stations and to reduce climate emissions."
Paul Scully, NSW's planning minister, said renewable energy projects would "help deliver clean and affordable energy to NSW residents while injecting millions of dollars into regional economies and creating hundreds of new jobs".
"We will continue to work closely with industry and impacted communities to strike the right balance between supporting renewable energy projects and responsible development," Scully said.
#112
Australia's coal-fired power plants are likely to shut at almost triple the pace currently announced, with Victoria's brown coal fleet to be closed in just over a decade and the main electricity grid becoming coal-free by 2043, according to the market operator.
The draft Integrated System Plan 2022, an industry blueprint updated every two years and released on Friday by the Australian Energy Market Operator, plots how the grid serving eastern Australia will change to meet emissions reduction and market goals.
It detailed four scenarios based on extensive consultation over 18 months. The most probable path, dubbed the "Step Change" option, anticipates a nine-fold increase in large-scale renewable energy, such as wind and solar farms, as electricity supplies double to meet the decarbonisation of transport and other sectors without coal.
Solar panels on homes will also increase five times, and firming capacity in the form of batteries and other storage will triple by 2050. About 10,000km of new transmission will also be needed to connect the increasingly dispersed supply.
Owners of some coal generators have already accelerated their declared retirement dates, based on market, financial and operating pressures caused by the rise of renewable generation, the report said.
"The financial viability of existing thermal generation will become increasingly uncertain, particularly coal-fired generation that is less able to adjust generation levels rapidly in response to changes in market prices," it said. "Significant financial decisions to repair and maintain plant may be harder to justify under this uncertainty, potentially resulting in declining plant reliability."
The ISP, which will be finalised next year, comes as major states such as Victoria and NSW develop renewable energy zones or promote renewables' penetration through auctions or offer financial support for households to install solar panels.
Federal Labor raised the target for 2030 national emissions reductions last week based on a jump in renewable energy and the Morrison government also set a net zero emissions target by 2050, based in part on the decarbonisation of the grid.
While the ISP predicts an ongoing need for gas to support the grid during dark and still periods when there is little renewable energy, use of the fossil fuel has lately been decreasing along with coal. Gas-fired power in the National Electricity Market, that serves about 80% of the population, was the lowest in at least 15 years in October.
The report notes the transformation of the grid has already "outpaced all expectations", with Australia installing five times the amount of large-scale renewables in 2019 on a per capita basis than the European Union.
"In the last two years, through the pandemic, [such renewables] development accelerated, with 40% more [of it] now committed or anticipated to be connected to the grid by 2023-24 than was forecast in the 2020 ISP, it said.
The grid's share of renewables has risen to as high as 61% during periods in September, and Aemo now forecasts stints of 100% by as early as 2025.
Installed capacity of the National Electricity Market now totals almost 60GW, generating about 180TW-hours of electricity annually.
 "With the Step Change, utility-scale generation and storage capacity would need to grow to 170 GW and deliver almost 400 TWh a year by 2050 to cater for existing loads and replace the gas and petrol currently consumed by much of our transport, industry, office and domestic use," it said, adding that energy efficiency would also need to improve.
Should Australia pursue a path of producing green hydrogen for export, that capacity would need to rise as much as eight-fold further should the country seek to be a hydrogen superpower, the report said.
Linking up the new plants will deliver net market benefits of $29bn, or 2.5 times the investment. "It optimises benefits for all who produce, consume and transport electricity in the market, as well as providing investment certainty and flexibility to reduce NEM emissions faster in the next decade if needed, and time for greater community engagement and supply chain risk management," it said, noting public support will be needed to allow the construction of power lines.
Rooftop solar will provide about 30% of renewable capacity, with 54GW of new capacity needed to increase the current 15GW capacity.
"By the mid-2040s, electricity supply is expected to be generated almost exclusively from renewable resources, with energy storages helping manage their seasonality and intermittency, and peaking gas generation providing firming support," the report said.
Risks include delays in major projects such as Snowy 2.0 giant pumped storage plant and the Marinus link between Tasmania and the mainland.
#113
Shell has misleadingly overstated how much it is spending on renewable energy and should be investigated and potentially fined by the US financial regulator, according to a non-profit group which has lodged a complaint against the oil giant.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has been urged to act over Shell's most recent annual report in which it stated 12% of its capital expenditure was funneled into a division called Renewables and Energy Solutions in 2021. The division's webpage, which is adorned with pictures of wind turbines and solar panels, says it is working to invest in "wind, solar, electric vehicle charging, hydrogen, and more".
However, Global Witness, the activist group that has lodged the new complaint with the SEC, argues that just 1.5% of Shell's capital expenditure has been used to develop genuine renewables, such as wind and solar, with much of the rest of the division's resources devoted to gas, which is a fossil fuel.
"What Shell has said about the energy transition is not reflected in what they are doing," said Zorka Milin, senior adviser at Global Witness. "This business unit is fundamentally mislabeled, it has very little in the way of renewables and investors could be lulled into thinking Shell is doing far more on renewables than it is.
"This is greenwashing. Gas, whatever it may be, is not renewable, it's part of the problem. I hope the SEC opens an investigation and imposes appropriate penalties to stop this greenwashing."
Shell does not have a full breakdown of its renewable energy activity in its annual reports but Global Witness said that by examining the document they could find $288m in wind and solar investment in 2021, which is equivalent to 1.5% of Shell's capital expenditure. Much of the spending by the Renewables and Energy Solutions division appears to be on the trading and marketing of gas.
Should the SEC act over the issue, it will mark the most aggressive regulatory foray yet by the US federal government against a fossil fuel sector that is facing multiple lawsuits in several states for misleading investors and the public over what they knew about the climate crisis.
Shell, which is headquartered in London but is listed on the New York stock exchange, has denied misleading investors. "We're confident Shell's financial disclosures are fully compliant with all SEC and other reporting requirements," said a company spokeswoman.
The Shell spokeswoman said the company budgeted $20bn for "energy transition activities" in 2022, which is a third of its total operational and capital expenditure spending. This investment went towards renewable energy, hydrogen fuels, capturing carbon at the source of pollution and research and development, she said.
Most of the world's largest oil companies now accept that burning their product is causing global heating and have committed to the goals of the Paris climate agreement. But their shift away from fossil fuels has been ponderous - only about 5% of oil and gas company capital expenditure went to wind, solar and other renewables in 2022, according to the International Energy Agency. This was up from just 1% in 2019.
Last year was a particularly lucrative one for oil companies' traditional business model, with soaring fossil fuel costs in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine prompting record profits for some of the wealthiest businesses in the world. Exxon made a record annual profit of nearly $56bn last year, while Chevron has reported a $36.5bn profit for 2022.
Milin said she hoped the SEC, which is separately mulling new requirements for companies to disclose their greenhouse gases, would act to deter other oil companies. "No more will we allow big polluters to pull the wool over our eyes while the world burns," she said. The SEC did not respond to a request for comment.
Bruce Huber, an expert in environmental law at Notre Dame University, said the new complaint highlights the external pressure that environmentalists are now placing upon fossil fuel companies.
"What we're seeing now is climate activists poring over the disclosures of energy firms with a fine-tooth comb, looking for any misstatements that could be the basis for liability or penalty," he said.
"Whether these tactics will actually induce Shell or its competitors to decarbonize is unclear, but even if not, those firms won't be able to sneeze without someone looking for a securities violation."
#114
The Albanese government is being pushed to provide an extra $100bn over 10 years to boost jobs and reduce emissions including through investments in clean industries and manufacturing of renewable energy components.
At the Australian Renewables Industry summit in Canberra on Monday unions, the renewable energy sector, community and investor groups will call for the package to respond to massive investment overseas including the US's Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).
Labor faced a similar push before its national conference in August, resulting in a substantial increase in ambition in the party's platform. It now recognises the energy transition is the "most significant economic opportunity since the Industrial Revolution" and commits to "substantial public investment in or underwriting of" critical assets.
The latest push is endorsed by groups including the Australian Council of Trade Unions, Australian Conservation Foundation, Climate Energy Finance, Rewiring Australia and the Smart Energy Council.
The group wants a minimum of $100bn over 10 years for: critical minerals; green iron, steel, and aluminium; advanced manufacturing including solar and wind components and batteries; heat pumps and home energy management; transmission; clean energy exports; zero carbon transport vehicles and fuels; and recycling.
The proposal does not specify the form of investment, which could include a mix of tax credits for advanced manufacturing, off-budget funds such as the National Reconstruction Fund, or direct government spending.
The assistant minister for manufacturing, Tim Ayres, will address the summit. Stakeholders are lobbying the climate change and energy minister, Chris Bowen, ahead of decisions on further clean energy investments to be included in the mid-year economic and fiscal update.
The Smart Energy Council chief executive, John Grimes, said Australia was "standing at a crucial juncture in our nation's history".
"Our world-leading resources and renewable energy potential provide the opportunity for Australia to become a driving force in the global green economy while driving down emissions in line with the science to maintain a safe climate.
"But without significantly greater investment, we simply won't be able to build the industries of the future, reduce emissions, create jobs or strengthen national prosperity and social equity."
The ACTU president, Michele O'Neil, said "the US, Canada, European Union, India, Korea and Japan are already committing hundreds of billions of dollars towards clean industrial support packages".
"Australia needs to do the same to fulfil our enormous clean energy potential and create hundreds of thousands of well-paid, safe and secure jobs.
"Both the urgency of the climate crisis and the enormity of the clean energy opportunity for workers and communities call for a bold, ambitious, and timely response from government."
Climate Energy Finance's founder, Tim Buckley, said, "we need a far more integrated and 'big picture' approach to encourage greater investment, commensurate with the scale of this massive renewables and critical minerals and metals embodied decarbonisation export opportunity for Australia".
In May, Bowen announced $2bn for a "hydrogen headstart" program. The Albanese government has set up a $20bn rewiring the nation fund for transmission and the $15bn national reconstruction fund but faces questions over whether it will need to scale it up given the Inflation Reduction Act's US$369bn investment in energy security.
In August the industry minister, Ed Husic, said the government wanted to signal that decarbonisation is "really important to Australia".
"The challenge of the IRA is that you don't lose your capacity - that is, that firms don't get lured offshore to do work in the US," he told Guardian Australia.
The opposition under Peter Dutton has called for consideration of nuclear energy to help reach net zero, an uncosted idea yet to become official Coalition policy.
On Saturday the New England branch of the Nationals pushed for the parliamentary party to abandon its commitment to net zero, the cost of which Barnaby Joyce labelled "utterly untenable".
#115
Investment in clean energy and the low-carbon economy fell sharply in the UK last year, even as rival nations were increasing their firepower in the global green race, data shows.
The UK's investment in the energy transition fell by 10%, from $31bn to $28bn, from 2021 to 2022, while similar investment in the US rose by about 24% to $141bn, and in Germany by 17% to $55bn.
Across the EU, investment in the energy transition away from fossil fuels rose by $26bn last year, to $180bn, in the aftermath of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The figures, which cover public and private sector investment, come from research by the House of Commons library, commissioned by the Liberal Democrats, and appear to show the UK falling behind at a crucial time. The US, through the Inflation Reduction Act, is planning a $369bn expansion of low-carbon efforts, and the EU is similarly pursuing green growth.
In the UK, renewable energy generation has been a mixed picture in recent years. Offshore wind has grown substantially, but onshore windfarms have been almost impossible to build in England since the planning laws were changed in 2015, while there has been hesitation over solar farms. The government has also refused to mandate solar panels on the roofs of new buildings.
Last month, the government unveiled a raft of measures intended to boost the low-carbon economy. But the announcements were overshadowed as ministers first labelled the measures "green day" then reneged to rebrand it as "energy security day". There was no new money for the plans, and the centrepiece - investment of £20bn over 20 years in carbon capture and storage technology in the North Sea - was called into doubt by scientists.
Wera Hobhouse, the Liberal Democrat energy and climate spokesperson and MP for Bath, accused the government of a "dereliction of duty" in failing to focus on the economic opportunities of going green, and to safeguard energy supplies and the climate.
She said: "The government's claims of being world leaders in the energy transition are in tatters. This data lays bare their neglect of our vital net zero goals, and failure to insulate us from the next energy crisis."
She added: "While other nations are facilitating major investment into the key industries of the future, our government is content to sit back and watch them race ahead. The result will be a lack of energy security, higher energy bills, and the continuing failure to hit our climate targets."
The data covers all investment in the energy transition, which includes renewable energy, electric vehicles, electrified heat such as heat pumps, hydrogen, energy storage and carbon capture and storage. Previous data collated by the House of Commons library, up to 2020, focused on renewable energy, so data from before 2020 cannot be directly compared, but it also shows a large fall in the UK's investment in renewable energy.
From 2016, when investment hit $24bn, renewable energy investment fell sharply to just $7.6bn in 2017, according to the research. UK spending on renewables recovered slightly in 2018 to $8.8bn but then slumped again to $5.3bn in 2019.
Hobhouse called for a £150bn public investment programme focused on achieving the UK's legally binding target of reaching net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, and including key green technologies of the future.
She said: "It is clearer than ever that we need to facilitate major new investment. Instead, the government is repackaging old announcements to give the appearance that they are taking action."
A spokesperson for the Department of Energy Security and Net Zero said: "Selective analysis of figures in this way is misleading. As home to the first, second, third and fourth largest operational offshore wind farms in the world, backed by £198bn of investment into low-carbon sectors since 2010, our record speaks for itself."
The spokesperson said: "That's 50% higher than the US as a share of GDP, and that's why 40% of our power came from renewables last year, nearly twice the figure for the US. Furthermore, the price of many renewable technologies has come down in recent years.
"The government is continuing to back clean energy, including the first state backing of a nuclear project in over 30 years in Sizewell C. Last month, we unveiled our Powering Up Britain plans to help us further deliver affordable, clean, homegrown power."
#116

Countries should move from coal to renewable energy without shifting to gas as a "transition" fuel to save money, as high gas prices and market volatility have made the fossil fuel an expensive option, analysis has found.
Natural gas has long been touted as a "transition" fuel for economies dependent on coal for their power needs, as it has lower carbon dioxide emissions than coal but requires similar centralised infrastructure, and gas-fired power stations take only a couple of years to build. Earlier this year, before Russia invaded Ukraine, the European Commission angered green campaigners by including gas as a "bridge" to clean energy in its guidebook for green investment.
High prices for gas, and the plummeting cost of renewable energies such as wind and solar power, have reversed that logic, according to analysis from TransitionZero. The cost of switching from coal to renewable energy has plunged by 99% since 2010, according to its report published on Tuesday.
The findings call into question the economic viability of the scores of gas and coal-fired power plants that are planned or under construction around the world. About 615GW of new gas plants, and 442GW of new coal-fired power stations, are planned for construction globally, according to the analysis.
Matt Gray, the co-founder of TransitionZero, said it no longer made sense to think of gas as a transition fuel, and countries should opt for renewables in place of coal. "Despite some regional variation, our analysis shows a clear deflationary trend in the cost of switching from coal to clean electricity," he said. "Independent of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, this trend will accelerate, presenting governments with an economic opportunity to protect electricity consumers from continued fossil fuel volatility."
Many countries are reviewing their energy policies in light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine - which has sent fossil fuel prices soaring and disrupted supplies - and may be considering a reversion to coal. The amount of power generated from coal rose 9% to a record high last year, even before the war in Ukraine, and if the coal-fired power stations now planned are built the world will have little chance of limiting global heating to 1.5C, according to separate analysis published last month.
Gray said that although the economics were firmly in favour of renewable energy, governments must make some policy changes in order to realise the full benefits. These included making it easier to build windfarms and solar power, because acquiring planning permission can take up to 10 years in some regions; removing distorting incentives and tax breaks for fossil fuels; and ensuring electricity markets are properly functioning.
The analysis also found that the economics of moving from coal power to renewable energy, without using gas, were most favourable in Europe, where the price of coal has increased, in part because of EU policies and also because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
In China and the US, however, domestically produced coal is cheaper than in Europe. Despite the lower price of renewables, China is still planning new coal-fired power stations, and the US could increase its coal use in response to higher demand for gas.
In Japan, the price of switching from coal to renewables is higher still, because of "discriminatory regulations and land-use constraints", and in south-east Asia some countries subsidise coal and gas, distorting the economics of a switch to clean power.
#117
Renewable energy is now "unstoppable", and no government can prevent the shift to a global low-carbon economy, UK energy secretary Ed Miliband has said.
He said the UK was acting out of national self-interest by taking a global lead on cutting greenhouse gas emissions and boosting financial help available to poor countries at crunch UN climate talks this week.
"No one government or one country can stop this transition happening," he told the Guardian at the Cop29 summit. "That's because people see the economic advantages of making this transition. And because countries are being affected daily by the climate crisis. It's the reality facing countries across the world."
The Cop29 talks, which began in Azerbaijan on Monday and will continue for another week, have been overshadowed by the re-election of climate-denying Donald Trump as US president. He has vowed to withdraw the US from the Paris climate agreement when he takes office in January, and reverse policies on cutting greenhouse gas emissions and promoting clean energy.
Miliband's comments came as leading climate experts wrote to the UN asking for the Cop process to be overhauled, saying it should in future be held more frequently and only in countries supportive of climate action. This year's host, Azerbaijan, is a major fossil fuel producer and before the conference one member of the organising team was filmed appearing to offer help striking fossil fuel deals.
In another blow to the talks, Argentina's populist president, Javier Milei, ordered the dramatic withdrawal of the country's Cop delegation on Wednesday night, a move regarded as a tribute to Trump. No more countries are expected to follow, but many at the talks fear it could embolden those who would stymy progress.
Miliband rejected this analysis. "There is determination here that this transition is going to happen now. It's got to happen in the right way, and it's got to happen with the urgency that's required. But it's happening, and it's unstoppable," he said.
Falling prices for renewable energy, and its advantages over volatile fossil fuels, would ensure the shift to a low-carbon economy continued, he said. "It's only going in one direction. How quickly it goes is partly the job of government. It's not going fast enough."
Miliband has taken personal charge of the negotiations at Cop29, in contrast to his Conservative predecessors who mostly delegated the task to junior ministers and officials. This year's talks are focused on providing financial help to poor countries, to help them cut their greenhouse gas emissions and cope with the impacts of climate-driven extreme weather.
Developing countries want $1tn a year in climate finance. Nicholas Stern, an economist, said it was "absolutely possible" for developed countries to meet such a pledge if about half the total came from the private sector, a quarter from the World Bank and its fellow institutions, and the remainder from a mixture of overseas aid from rich countries, and potential new taxes such as a frequent flyer levy and a charge on shipping.
The UK prime minister, Keir Starmer, who attended the world leaders' segment of the Cop earlier this week, announced fresh commitments on cutting carbon that were widely hailed as strong and ambitious, and confirmed the UK's £11.6bn pledge to developing countries.
For the UK to take a lead on climate action, and help the poorest, made sense for British taxpayers, Miliband said.
"We need developing countries to take the low-carbon path, because otherwise we've got no chance of keeping global warming to 1.5C or even 2C [above preindustrial levels]. Getting finance to developing countries so that they can is absolutely in our national self-interest," he said. "Otherwise we're going to have climate breakdown and future generations will hold us in infamy, and rightly so."
Spending money on aid was "hard, because our public finances are really stretched", he admitted. "That is the unavoidable context of these negotiations."
But the consequences of failure would be dire for the UK. "Poorer countries are on the frontline of this crisis. If states cannot cope with what the climate is throwing at them, it produces massive global instability," he said. "So from every point of view this is the right thing to do."
Under Rishi Sunak, the Tories were threatening to drop the UK's climate finance pledge to the poor world, and the new leader, Kemi Badenoch, has previously called the pledge to reach net zero emissions by 2050 "unilateral economic disarmament", arguing that the UK should hang back as other countries have bigger carbon footprints.
Miliband rejected those positions. "The last government used to say we're only 1% of global emissions, as if it was an excuse for inaction. In fact, it's an instruction for global action. We're only going to keep a future generation safe if we work with others to show leadership and it will be an absolute betrayal of future generations not to turn up, not to lean in, not to be part of this," he said.
"Wherever I go, people are relieved that Britain is back, is leading, they want to see British leadership. It consists of doing the right thing at home for Britain, which is what we're doing, then using that as a platform to persuade others to act," he said.
For many climate campaigners, Trump's re-election set the seal on climate failure, killing hopes of limiting heating to 1.5C above preindustrial levels, the goal of the Paris agreement. But Miliband says other countries carried on tackling the climate crisis without the US during Trump's last stint in the White House. "My overwhelming message to people is, don't despair. Despair gets you nowhere and it's not the right response, because it's not the reality," he said.
Politicians must find ways, at Cop29 and beyond, to ensure the transition to a low-carbon world happens as swiftly as possible, in the interests of the UK and the rest of the world, he said. "I'm still in politics because I care so much about this issue. Because I think k we are going to be judged on these existential questions."
#118
Large-scale renewable energy investment and construction in Australia is rebounding this year after a slump, but will need to accelerate to reach the pace needed to meet the Albanese government's goal for 2030.
The country could add more than 7 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity this year, up from 5.3 GW last year, according to data released by the Clean Energy Regulator.
Dylan McConnell, an energy systems researcher at the University of New South Wales, said: "There is this narrative that has developed that the transition has stalled and that's demonstrably not true. It is happening, it just needs to speed up."
The new capacity is split roughly equally between household rooftop solar systems, which continue to be installed at what has been a world-leading pace, and large-scale renewable energy developments.
Industry group the Clean Energy Council said the country was likely to have more than 25GW of rooftop solar by the end of the year, surpassing the total 21.3GW capacity of the national coal-fired power fleet. More than 3.7m homes and small businesses have systems.
But the bigger change has been in construction of large-scale solar and wind farms, which fell in 2023, but has increased beyond expectations this year. The regulator said it was expected between 3GW and 4GW would be added.
The climate change and energy minister, Chris Bowen, said the data showed the national grid supplying the five eastern states was expected to run on 42% renewable energy this year.
The regulator said final investment decisions were made on 1.8GW of new large renewable developments in the first half of the year. This surpassed 1.6GW in total commitments in 2023.
Investment in grid-scale renewable energy fell last year after a long-standing legislated federal renewable energy target was reached and as investors faced uncertainty over when coal-fired power plants would close.
The Albanese government chose not to expand the legislated target, but has promised to underwrite 25GW of new large-scale solar and wind as they aim to have 82% of Australia's electricity from renewable sources by 2030.
The Australian Energy Market Operator has declared the national grid would remain reliable as it shifted from running on mostly coal to mostly renewables, but would require planned investments in new generation to be delivered "on time and in full".
Bowen said the latest data showed the government's renewables plan was "on track and building momentum". He repeated his argument that the Coalition's proposal to limit investment in large-scale renewables and eventually build nuclear plants would put the country at risk of supply shortages and blackouts.
"[Opposition leader] Peter Dutton wants to stop renewable investment, tear up contracts for new renewable and transmission projects and deliver expensive nuclear reactors in two decades' time," he said.
Dutton gave a speech on nuclear energy on Monday, but did not release new information about what the Coalition planned. He promised those details - including the expected cost for households and businesses and how the Coalition planned to prevent blackouts as ageing coal plants reached the end of their scheduled lives - before the next election.
#119
Labour's plan to switch to a clean power system by 2030 faces "significant challenges" to avoid delays and prevent vulnerable households paying higher bills, experts have warned.
The UK Energy Research Centre (UKERC) has said there is "very little room for error" in meeting the government's plan to create a 95% low-carbon electricity grid by the end of the decade.
The government has promised that the move to cleaner electricity will ultimately mean lower bills because the UK's exposure to volatile global gas prices will be reduced. But there has been no official cost comparison provided for its 2030 clean power target compared with the previous government's 2035 deadline.
In its annual report, the UKERC said that consumers expecting that a higher use of cheap renewables "would translate into lower energy bills" would probably "be disappointed" that Britain's National Energy System Operator (Neso) has "not been clearer in its commentary on the direct cost impact of changing the generation mix".
The researchers said: "Nonetheless, reduced exposure to the volatility of the global gas market is an important benefit of the transition and there are policy options that have the potential to reduce electricity bills in the short term.
"However, policymakers face significant challenges both in delivering clean power within the timeline the government desires and doing so in a way that ensures consumers benefit."
A spokesperson for Neso said the direct impact of the government's clean power agenda on consumer electricity bills depends on "policy design and market dynamics". Its official advice to the government indicates "the hurdles that need to be overcome to deliver the benefits of clean power to consumers, the economy and society, including Britain's energy security".
UKERC, which is publicly funded but independent of the government, said that there are "questions about the deliverability" of the target for the end of this decade.
The researchers said: "There are perhaps even bigger challenges post 2030" when the whole electricity system needs to expand and the multibillion-pound costs of retiring Britain's gas pipelines could fall on consumers.
The UKERC said a plan for funding and retiring the UK's gas network is "desperately needed" as the country shifts towards clean energy.
Gas infrastructure is expected to remain a key part of Britain's energy security beyond the 2030 clean power target, but there are concerns over how the network will be funded as consumers shift to clean home heating systems to cut greenhouse gas emissions in line with the government's climate targets.
UKERC warned that, in the coming years, network costs would be split between a diminishing number of customers, pushing up prices. The shift is expected to hit vulnerable people such as renters and low-income households hardest because they are likely to be least able to make the shift away from gas.
The cost of disconnecting customers from the gas grid could climb to as high as £29bn, and the job of physically dismantling the pipelines could cost £25bn, according to UKERC.
A "whole system plan for the retirement of the network is desperately needed" with decisions on the technology mix for home heating, clarity on boiler phase-out dates, the role of hydrogen, and even potential nationalisation of the network, the report said.
Jess Britton, a co-director of UKERC, said: "The energy transition must not leave anyone behind. Ensuring that vulnerable communities share in the benefits of this transition is a moral and practical imperative.
"Focusing on energy efficiency, targeted support and inclusive policies will help address inequalities and ensure everyone has access to cleaner, cheaper, and warmer homes."
A government spokesperson said: "The government has a plan to make Britain a clean energy superpower so we can end our energy insecurity. As shown by National Energy System Operator's independent report, clean power by 2030 is achievable and will deliver a more secure energy system, which could see a lower cost of electricity and lower bills."
#120
Most people in the world's biggest fossil fuel producing countries want their countries to transition quickly to clean energy to fight the climate crisis, according to the largest ever climate opinion poll, conducted by the UN.
Many of these states have profited heavily from fossil fuel exploitation, but the 77-nation poll shows their citizens are deeply concerned about the impacts of global heating on their lives. In China and India, the biggest coal producers, 80% and 76% respectively want a quick green transition.
In the US, the world's biggest oil and gas producer, 54% of people want a fast transition, as do 75% of those in Saudi Arabia, the second biggest oil producer. The poll also found 69% of Australians want a quick transition away from its large coal and gas sector.
The UN Development Programme said the purpose of the poll was to show political leaders what millions of people around the world felt about the climate emergency, and what action they wanted taken. "It is so important we let the people speak for themselves," said Achim Steiner, the UNDP head.
The poll questioned 75,000 people in countries representing almost 90% of the global population. It found a large majority (80%) wanted their countries to strengthen their climate change commitments, with only 5% saying their country should weaken its action.
Even more - 86% - wanted to see their countries set aside geopolitical differences and work together on climate change. Steiner said this level of consensus was "stunning", given the increase in conflict and the rise of nationalism around the world.
"There can be no doubt that citizens across the world are saying to their leaders, you have to act and, above all, have to act faster," he said. "This is an issue that almost everyone, everywhere, can agree on."
Steiner said some fossil fuel nations would have to go through "existential shifts".
"There are very narrow, self-interested agendas that maintain artificially inflated [profits] for fossil-fuel-based industries that ultimately are coming at the cost of everyone," he said. "Hundreds of billions of dollars of fossil fuel subsidies are artificially slowing down an energy transition - [it] is deliberately being held back by a distorted market.
"But we are definitely peaking on fossil fuels and we are seeing exponential growth rates in renewables and what the public ultimately wants is unquestionably pointing in the direction of a net zero transition."
The People's Climate Vote contacted participants via randomly generated telephone numbers, with results weighted to ensure they represented national populations, and special effort was made to reach those sometimes overlooked by polling, such as older women without any formal education.
Globally, the poll found 72% of people wanted their country to transition quickly away from fossil fuels to clean energy, with majorities in nine out of 10 countries. Only 7% of people said there should be no transition at all.
There were large majorities in significant fossil fuel producers, including Nigeria (89%), Brazil (81%), Iran (79%), UK (76%) and Canada (65%). However, Russia (16%) and Iraq (43%) were exceptions.
The poll also found that 56% of people globally said they thought about climate change daily or weekly, and a similar number said they were more worried about climate change than they were a year ago. Almost 70% said their big decisions, such as where to live or work, were being affected by climate change.
"Climate change is on people's doorsteps, and they know it," said the UNDP global director of climate change, Cassie Flynn. "Extremes are a part of our everyday lives, from the wildfires in Canada, the droughts in east Africa, to the flooding in UAE and Brazil."
Cop29, the UN's annual international climate summit in December, is set to be dominated by the issue of climate finance and the poll showed 79% of people wanted rich countries to give more support to poorer countries.
"The social and justice dimensions of the climate transition have become perhaps the most central variables in the way the politics will play out in the years to come," said Steiner. "One of the lessons everyone has learned in recent years is do not underestimate the concern people have for their livelihoods and their ability to pay their energy bills."
#121
Global investment in low-carbon electricity will rise to 10 times as much as fossil fuel power this year due to an increase in spending on solar projects, according to the International Energy Agency.
The global energy watchdog has predicted that investment in clean energy including renewables and nuclear power as well as electric vehicles, power grids, energy storage, low-emissions fuels, efficiency improvements and heat pumps will reach $2tn this year.
The global clean energy investment figure, which topped fossil fuels for the first time last year, is likely to be double the $1tn forecast for coal, gas and oil in 2024, the IEA said.
"For every dollar going to fossil fuels today, almost $2 are invested in clean energy," said the IEA's executive director, Fatih Birol.
However, spending on oil and gas is still too high to meet the world's climate targets, according to Birol. Climate experts have warned that global climate targets will not be met if new investments are made into fossil fuels.
Global coal investments have continued to rise, with more than 50GW of unabated coal-fired power approved last year, the highest since 2015.
Global oil and gas investments are expected to increase by 7% in 2024 to reach $570bn, after a similar rise in 2023, led predominantly by state-owned oil companies in the Middle East and Asia, according to the report.
These investments are broadly aligned with the forecast energy demand levels for 2030 based on current policies, but they are far higher than would be needed according to forecast models in which the world meet its climate goals, the IEA warned.
Birol said oil and gas companies are "claiming to be part of the solution" but are continuing to spend on average just 4% of their investment budgets on clean energy projects, while national oil companies spend even less.
The warning comes days after a separate IEA report revealed that the world is off track to meet the goal of tripling renewable electricity generation by 2030, a target viewed as vital to enable a swift global transition away from fossil fuels, despite record investments.
Global clean energy investment has been driven by spending on solar farms, which is on track to reach $500bn this year, surpassing the investment in all other electricity generation technologies combined.
This has been fuelled by a 30% fall in solar technology costs in the last two years and a rapid roll out of solar farms across China, which built as much new capacity in 2023 as the entire world did the year before, the IEA said.
"Solar power is entirely essential to the transformation of the global energy system," Birol said.
Investment in low-carbon electricity - which includes renewables and nuclear power - is likely to reach more than $900bn this year, according to the report, 10 times higher than investment in gas and coal power generation.
The proportion of global investment has swung further towards clean electricity sources since 2015, the year global governments signed the Paris climate accord, when it was twice the amount invested in fossil fuel-fired power.
China is expected to lead the world in clean energy investment this year, reaching an estimated $675bn, through its investments in solar, lithium batteries and electric vehicles. Europe and the US are expected to invest $370bn and $315bn in clean energy respectively.
Birol warned that more must be done to ensure that clean energy investment reaches "the places where it is needed most, in particular the developing economies where access to affordable, sustainable and secure energy is severely lacking today".
#122
The bosses of the world's leading oil and gas companies have poured scorn on efforts to move away from fossil fuels, complaining that a "visibly failing" transition to clean energy was being pushed forward at an "unrealistic pace".
The oil executives, gathered at the industry's annual Cera Week conference in Houston, Texas, have taken turns this week to denounce calls for a rapid phase-out of fossil fuels, despite widespread acknowledgment within the industry, as well as scientists and governments, of the need to radically reduce planet-heating emissions to avoid the worst effects of the climate crisis.
"We should abandon the fantasy of phasing out oil and gas, and instead invest in them adequately," said Amin Nasser, chief executive of Saudi Aramco, the world's largest oil company, to applause in the room.
Nasser dismissed projections by the International Energy Agency (IEA) that global demand for oil and gas will peak by 2030, claiming that rising energy costs mean that people will require "the importance of oil and gas security" rather than shift to renewables.
"In fact, in the real world, the current transition strategy is visibly failing on most fronts," Nasser added, criticizing solar, wind and electric vehicles for what he said was a minimal impact in cutting greenhouse gas emissions.
"And, despite our starring role in global prosperity, our industry is painted as transition's arch-enemy," Nasser complained.
This skepticism was echoed by other leading executives at the conference, which gathers industry leaders and politicians in Texas's oily heartland. Meg O'Neill, chief executive of Woodside Energy, said that the transition to clean energy cannot "happen at an unrealistic pace", predicting that cleaner fuels could take up to 40 years to develop.
"It has become emotional," O'Neill said of the climate debate. "And when things are emotional, it becomes more difficult to have a pragmatic conversation."
"If we rush or if things go the wrong way, we'll have a crisis that we will never forget," warned Jean Paul Prates, chief executive of Petrobras, Brazil's state-owned oil corporation, about the shift to clean energy.
The comments were swiftly denounced by climate campaigners.
Those in the industry "work night and day to torpedo a transition to renewable energy and then have the audacity to critique the slowness of the transition itself," said Jeff Ordower, North America director of 350.org. "Cera Week should highlight a global vision toward a clean and equitable future, and instead, we get talking points from the 1970s."
"We should be skeptical of any solutions touted by the industry because it's clear they don't have a real interest in halting the climate crisis," Ordower added.
The conference, which has the "multi-dimensional, multi-speed and multi-fuel energy transition" as its theme, is being held to a backdrop of several major oil and gas companies reversing their plans to cut production and watering down targets to eliminate greenhouse gases, even as they bask in near-record profits.
Darren Woods, the chief executive of Exxon, who recently said the public is unwilling to pay for a world with less carbon pollution, has used Cera Week to instead talk up the prospects of carbon capture and hydrogen technologies, which the industry sees as acceptable avenues for government subsidy that do not threaten the central business model of drilling for oil and gas.
Scientists are clear, however, that the world needs to get to net zero emissions by the mid-point of this century to avoid disastrous heatwaves, droughts, floods and other climate-driven impacts and so far no technology is able to ameliorate the primary task of not burning more oil, gas and coal.
According to the IEA, which has called the fossil-fuel industry "a marginal force at best" in investing in the transition to clean energy, oil and gas use would have to decline by more than 75% by 2050 if the world is to keep to the internationally agreed goal of limiting global heating to 1.5C beyond pre-industrial times.
This would require the curtailing of an unprecedented boom in gas infrastructure along the US's Gulf of Mexico coast, which Joe Biden's administration recently sought to dampen by announcing a pause in new exports of liquified natural gas from these facilities. At Cera Week, however, Jennifer Granholm, Biden's energy secretary, said that the pause will be "long in the rear-view mirror" in a year's time.
In Houston, climate activists, including those who staged a mock funeral march outside the conference on Tuesday to represent communities blighted by oil and gas development, said the industry executives had shown their true intentions at the gathering.
"If you look at their actions, it's clear that not only are they not committed to reducing emissions, they've actually come to Cera Week to continue promoting fossil fuel production and extraction and delaying the transition to a just, clean energy future," said Josh Eisenfeld, campaign manager of corporate accountability at Earthworks.
Aly Tharp, a campaigner at GreenFaith, said activists had been purposely barred from registering to attend the event, leaving them to voice their objections outside the venue.
"I have a moral obligation to disrupt the systematic poisoning of our planet being caused by fossil fuels," she said. "These harms need to be seen and understood and not left out of the conversation."
#123
The world is off track to meet the goal of tripling renewable electricity generation by 2030, a target viewed as vital to enable a swift global transition away from fossil fuels, but there are promising signs that the pace of progress may be picking up.
Countries agreed last December on a tripling of renewable power by the end of this decade. But few have yet taken concrete steps to meet this requirement and on current policies and trends global renewable generation capacity would only roughly double in developed countries, and slightly more than double globally by 2030, according to an analysis by the International Energy Agency.
Fatih Birol, the executive director of the IEA, said: "The tripling target is ambitious but achievable - though only if governments quickly turn promises into plans of action. Countries worldwide have a major opportunity to accelerate progress towards a more secure, affordable and sustainable energy system."
Governments should include targets and policies on renewables in their national action plans for the climate (called nationally determined contributions, or NDCs), which are a requirement under the Paris agreement, the IEA found. Many currently fail to do so, even though vast increases in renewable power are essential to meeting the treaty's aspiration of limiting temperature rises to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels.
The IEA, the gold standard for global energy research, analysed the domestic policies and targets of nearly 150 countries, and found they would result in about 8,000GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030. That amount is about 70% of what is necessary to reach 11,000GW of capacity, the amount needed for the tripling goal agreed at the Cop28 UN climate summit in Dubai last year.
Solar power makes up about half of the capacity governments are planning to install, with wind making up about a quarter.
Heymi Bahar, a senior energy analyst at the IEA and co-author of the report Cop28: Tripling Renewable Capacity Pledge, said: "There is a gap, but the gap is bridgeable."
Last year, there was a record increase in renewable capacity, amounting to about 560GW added in one year, a 64% increase on the new capacity added in 2022. Solar and wind are still cheaper than fossil fuels, and the IEA does not foresee that changing. There is plenty of solar manufacturing capacity, and supply issues with wind power components are being resolved. Some wind companies that had been in difficulty owing to high component prices were moving back to profitability, said Bahar.
Some countries are moving faster than their national targets. Last year, China added more new renewable generation capacity than the rest of the world combined. "It was incredible," said Bahar. "Everyone was very surprised. One of the reasons is that solar and wind are so much cheaper than coal."
Governments now need to focus much more attention on upgrading their electricity grids, which are a major block on progress in many places, Bahar added. "Countries have been allocating lots of support to renewables, but the grid has been forgotten. Regulatory action is needed."
He said countries could move faster now to ensure that the tripling target is met. Governments are meeting this week and next in Bonn, headquarters of the UN framework convention on climate change secretariat, to discuss the pledges made at Cop28, and progress towards the Cop29 conference, which will take place this November in Azerbaijan.
One of the key items under discussion will be climate finance, and how to increase the finance available for developing countries to cut their greenhouse gas emissions and cope with the impacts of extreme weather. For developing countries, including renewable energy plans in their NDCs - which are due for an update ahead of the Cop30 climate summit in Brazil next year - can be an essential first step towards gaining the finance that they need.
Katye Altieri, an analyst at the thinktank Ember, said: "Solar and wind provide three-quarters of global growth, as they have proven their ability to scale rapidly to provide cheap, secure and clean energy. Technologies like bioenergy have failed to gain traction, not only because of costs but also the risk of emissions and wider social and ecological impacts."
#124
The incoming Climate Change Authority chair Matt Kean has issued a call to arms for the clean energy industry to "enter the arena" and push back against vested interests seeking to erode public confidence in renewable energy.
Kean, a former energy minister in New South Wales and Liberal MP for another three weeks, told the Australian Clean Energy Summit 2024 in Sydney the industry had the science and the financial heft to counter the "propaganda" of vested fossil fuel interests.
"Those whose interest is maintaining the status quo and their own super profits and self-interest at the expense of Australian families and the national interest are hard at work undermining the transition," Kean told the event in his first major speech since being appointed authority head by the Albanese government last month.
"While many here remain silent and hopeful, they are loud and determined," Kean said, according to a copy of speech. "It is time for many of you in this room to put your mouth where your money is."

"The facts, the benefits, and the positive outcomes are on your side," he said. "It's time for you to enter the debate and argue for Australia."
Approval and construction delays have slowed the development and connection of large-scale wind and solar plants and the transmission lines needed to supply the low-cost energy to customers. Costs also increased in the process.
The Australian Energy Market Operator used last month's launch of its biennial blueprint to warn the pace of renewables must double the present pace to 6GW a year to meet decarbonisation goals and fill the gap as ageing coal plants shut.
Kean's comments echoed those of Kane Thornton, the chief executive of the Clean Energy Council, which organised the event. Thornton opened Tuesday's gathering by warning of "bad faith actors".
These were using "a weakened media [to prey] on communities increasingly anxious about the uncertainty and tensions in the world around us to tear things down", Thornton said. Those with fossil fuel interests were "stepping up to tell their story and peppering it with myths, truths, and outright disinformation" to stall renewables.
"The battering ram, of course, is nuclear power," Thornton said, referring to the federal opposition's pledge to introduce seven nuclear plants after the mid-2030s.
Kean, who will take up the authority role on 5 August, did not mention nuclear energy. Asked about the energy source at a media conference in Canberra to mark his appointment last month, Kean said the advice given to him as NSW energy minister was that nuclear energy would be too expensive and take too long to build.
"I didn't want to bankrupt the state.' he said at the time. "And I didn't want to put those huge costs on to families."
????? ?????
In Tuesday's speech, Kean said Australia should learn from Europe's efforts to accelerate renewables to wean the region off oil and gas following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"It reinforced the need to replace unreliable coal-power power stations and a dependence on foreign energy sources," he said. "[Approvals were] now simpler, faster and more cost effective - and reflect the broader strategic interests involved in combating climate change."
"Too many projects are being forced to run a tortuous path to approval, bouncing between federal and state and sometimes local approval regimes ... dragging on for years, when time is of the essence," Kean said.
Governments should work towards "a new set of guiding principles" to ensure policymakers and regulators had "a laser-like focus on what can be done to approve projects, rather than the fine print that can be used to stop them," he said.
"The urgent need for the delivery of new, clean energy supply should serve as a call to arms."
#125
Fossil fuels could soon become significantly cheaper and more abundant as governments accelerate the transition to clean energy towards the end of the decade, according to the International Energy Agency.
The world's energy watchdog has signalled a new energy era in which countries have access to more oil, gas and coal than needed to fuel their economic growth, leading to lower prices for households and businesses.
The Paris-based agency's influential annual outlook report found that energy consumers could expect some "breathing space" from recent spikes in global oil and gas prices triggered by geopolitical upheavals because investment in new fossil fuel projects has outpaced the world's demand.
Fatih Birol, the executive director of the IEA, said the report confirms its prediction that the world's fossil fuel consumption will peak before 2030 and fall into permanent decline as climate policies take effect. But continuing investment in fossil fuel projects will spell falling market prices for oil and gas, the IEA added.
"I can't say whether or not we will see [oil prices of] $100 a barrel again, but what I can say is that despite the ongoing conflict in the Middle East we are still seeing oil prices in the $70s," he said.
Oil prices dipped below $74 on Tuesday amid growing concern about weak Chinese demand.
The IEA acknowledged that the potential for near-term disruption to oil and gas supply remains, due to conflict in the Middle East, which risks disrupting exports of crude and gas from the region. But its long-term view shows an "easing in underlying market balances" and "lower prices on the horizon", it said.
By the end of the decade, global oil prices could plateau at $75 to $80 a barrel, according to the IEA's central forecast, compared with an average price of just over $100 a barrel in 2022 following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The price of gas imported into the EU is also expected to plunge from a record average high of over $70 (£54) per million British thermal units (MBtu) in 2022 to $6.50 (£5) by the end of the decade, following a boom in planned gas projects in recent years, according to the IEA.
Investment in exporting liquefied natural gas (LNG) via ships boomed in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which drastically cut pipeline imports of Russian gas into Europe. The IEA estimates that the world's LNG capacity will grow by almost 50% by 2030, greater than the world's forecast demand in all three of the agency's modelled scenarios.
The world's rising production of crude oil from new oil projects in the US, Canada and South America could mean that future supplies will outstrip global oil demand growth because China, the world's biggest oil importer, is "wrong-footing" major oil producers by shifting rapidly towards electric vehicles, the IEA said.
"China has been the engine of oil market growth in recent decades, but that engine is now switching over to electricity," the IEA said.
Electric vehicles currently have a share of about 20% of all new car sales worldwide, which could rise to 50% by 2030 under the IEA's central forecast scenario, a level already achieved in China this year. This would erode the world's demand for oil by about 6m barrels of oil a day, according to the IEA.
The "new world" for energy consumers will be more comfortable economically, Birol said, but he warned that the shift will require green alternatives, such as electric vehicles and heat pumps, to become cheaper too if they hope to compete against more affordable fossil fuels.
The IEA has predicted that the surge in demand for clean electricity sources will accelerate further in the years ahead, adding the equivalent of Japan's power demand to the world's total electricity use each year in a scenario based on today's policy settings. This demand would rise even more quickly if governments set new policies that align with the global goal of achieving net zero emissions, the IEA said.
#126
Oil and gas producers must convert their operations to renewable energy or face steep economic decline, the world's chief energy adviser has said amid the forging of a new alliance of energy companies at the UN Cop28 climate summit.
Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency, said: "We have to find a way to reduce fossil fuel consumption, and as such there is an important role that the oil and gas industry can play. I very much hope that they can show in Dubai that they can be part of the solution when it comes to tackling climate change."
Birol warned that oil and gas companies would find it more difficult to operate in future. "It is not just people in Europe or the US, or Australia, who are raising the alarm - more and more people around the world, from the streets of New Delhi and Jakarta, to Nairobi and Rio. They are seeing the clear links between the continued high use of fossil fuels and the increasingly severe climate impacts they are seeing almost on a daily basis."
Governments should bring in policies to encourage the switch, but even if they did not, on current policies fossil fuel use would peak by 2030, leaving companies with an uncertain future, he warned.
Currently only 2.5% of the capital investment of oil and gas companies goes towards renewable energy, which Birol said was insufficient.
"I very much hope we will see [from Cop28] a strong signal to energy markets that fossil fuel use needs to decline," he told the Guardian.
Birol warned that fossil fuel companies must prepare now "for an orderly decline" rather than try to expand or continue their operations. He said the skills and technology such companies already possess could be used in renewable energy generation, if they refocused their aims.
"I would like to see oil and gas companies embrace clean energy because they have a strong overlap with the strengths of oil and gas companies," he said. "There is good affinity and they can really move in that direction."
Many experts and countries, including the EU, now regard the Cop28 target of tripling renewables by 2030 to be insufficiently stretching, as recent analysis has shown it is likely to be achieved on current trajectories.
Birol repeated his view that simply investing in carbon capture and storage (CCS) would not give companies a licence to operate in future. "It's a fantasy," he told the Guardian. "It is an illusion."
CCS technology will never scale up to cover the emissions of the oil and gas sector if they carry on with business as usual, and its use should be concentrated among sectors such as steel and cement that face the greatest difficulty in switching from fossil fuels, Birol said.
Current investment in CCS is about $4bn (£3.15bn) a year, but it would need to be $4tn a year to cover the emissions from fossil fuel use, amounts which Birol said were "implausible".
At Cop28, the host country, the United Arab Emirates, itself one of the world's biggest oil and gas producers, has drawn together a large group of both private sector and nationally owned oil and gas companies. Members of the "decarbonisation accelerator" will unveil promises in Dubai on Saturday to reduce and eventually eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from their operations.
However, these emissions are small relative to the size of the emissions from burning oil and gas. Many of the actions the companies are likely to sign up to are ones that they are already taking, or that could benefit them financially, such as plugging or capturing leaks of methane - the main component of natural gas - from their extraction operations. These measures are already profitable in many such operations, because of the high price of gas.
A letter, seen by the Guardian, signed by more than 300 civil society groups including Greenpeace, WWF and Oxfam, said the world needed a "transformative outcome" from Cop28, not voluntary pledges from fossil fuel companies.
David Tong, global industry campaign manager at the pressure group Oil Change International, which organised the letter, said: "The Global Decarbonisation Alliance is a dangerous distraction from the Cop28 process. We need legal agreements, not voluntary pledges. The science is clear: staying under 1.5C global warming requires a full, fast, fair and funded phase-out of fossil fuels, starting now."
Cansin Leylim Ilgaz, associate director of global campaigns at 350.org, said: "We don't have time to waste with more pledges and initiatives with fancy names. In order to shift the billions of dollars going to fossil fuels to renewable energy, and achieve an ambitious renewable energy target globally, we need a fast, fair and equitable fossil fuel phase out that does not rely on dangerous distractions. Cop28 must ensure we take the steps to ensure our collective future is one of shared prosperity by massively scaling up public finance for a just transition."
One of the hardest-fought issues at Cop28 is likely to be whether to include a resolution to phase out fossil fuels in the final text. Some countries insist this is necessary to give a clear direction to the fossil fuel industry and investors, but some fossil fuel producers want to protect their industries, and many developing countries see the issue as one of global north hypocrisy that could deprive poor countries of the chance to exploit their reserves.
#127
he EU plans a "massive" increase in solar and wind power, and a short-term boost for coal, to end its reliance on Russian oil and gas as fast as possible.
In a plan outlined on Wednesday, the European Commission said the EU needed to find an extra €210bn (£178bn) over the next five years to pay for phasing out Russian fossil fuels and speeding up the switch to green energy.
Senior officials conceded that in the short term, the race to get off Russian gas would mean burning more coal and nuclear energy. The plan, drawn up in response to the Kremlin-ordered invasion of Ukraine and subsequent soul-searching about Europe's dependence on Russian gas, proposes upgrades to the EU green deal, the bloc's flagship policy to confront the climate crisis.
The Commission proposed that 45% of the EU's energy mix should come from renewables by 2030, an advance on the current 40% target suggested less than a year ago. Officials also want to cut energy consumption by 13% by 2030 (compared with 2020), in comparison with the current proposal of a 9% saving.
"It is clear we need to put an end to this dependence and a lot faster before we had foreseen before this war," said Frans Timmermans, the EU official in charge of the green deal. Contrasting the call to find €210bn to spend on new energy infrastructure, including windfarms and solar panels, he said the EU was spending €100bn a year on Russian fossil fuels. "Speeding up the transition means that money can stay in Europe, can help bring down the energy bills of European families and will not be used to finance this barbaric war in Ukraine."
But phasing out Russian gas means coal-fired power plants "might also be used longer than initially expected", states the EU strategy. The decision to quit Russian gas has also led to a scramble to increase Europe's imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from countries such as the US and Qatar, as well as pipeline gas from Azerbaijan.
The commission said it would be necessary to spend up to €12bn - about 6% of the extra €210bn needed - to build LNG terminals and upgrade oil plants to allow EU member states to switch to non-Russian fossil fuels.
Timmermans said the EU could still meet its target of net zero emissions by 2050. "You might use coal a bit longer, that has a negative impact on your emissions," adding: "If we can actually do what I say, reduce our energy consumption in combination with a speedier introduction of renewables, we will bring down our emissions even quicker than before."
The Dutch MEP Bas Eickhout, a vice-chair of the European parliament's environment committee, said the commission was leaving the door open for member states to continue funding fossil fuel infrastructure. "Investments that are urgently needed for energy efficiency and renewables can still flow into new pipelines and terminals, this might continue our fossil energy dependency," he said.
Green campaigners voiced concern about plans to source LNG from states in the Middle East and Caucasus with poor human rights records, while criticising the green light for new gas infrastructure.
"The more we spend importing gas, the more we continue to expose the most vulnerable in our society to unaffordable energy bills, fuel the climate crisis and fund other repressive fossil-fuelled regimes around the world," said Murray Worthy at Global Witness.
To help speed up renewable energy, the EU wants to make it easier for companies to build wind and solar farms. Officials said it could take up to nine years to get a permit for a windfarm and four for solar. "And this is time we do not have," said one. Any change in planning laws would require action from national and local authorities.
#128
Global carbon emissions from energy will peak in 2025 thanks to massively increased government spending on clean fuels in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to analysis by the world's leading energy organisation.
The International Energy Agency (IEA) said that government spending on clean energy in response to the crisis would mark a "historic turning point" in the transition away from fossil fuels, in its annual report on global energy.
The invasion of Ukraine has prompted an energy crisis around the world, with global gas prices initially surging. The crisis has caused steep inflation that has made households poorer around the world.
Governments have been scrambling to find other sources of energy. Some analysts have questioned whether fears over energy security could lead to the use of fossil fuels for longer, slowing the world's race to net zero carbon emissions. Some countries - including the US and the UK under previous prime minister Liz Truss - have pledged to encourage fossil fuel extraction to try to ease prices.
However, Fatih Birol, the IEA's executive director and one of the world's most influential energy economists, said the energy crisis caused by Russia's invasion "is in fact going to accelerate the clean energy transition".
The IEA said planned investments in green energy in response to the crisis meant that - for the first time - government policies would lead to demand for polluting fossil fuels peaking this decade. The agency cited notable contributions from the US Inflation Reduction Act, the EU's emissions reduction package, and actions by Japan, South Korea, China and India.
Under the new plans investment in low-carbon energy such as solar, wind and nuclear power will rise to $2tn (£1.7tn) a year by 2030, an increase of more than 50% from today. However, annual clean energy investment would have to reach $4tn by 2030 to reach net zero carbon emissions by 2050, a figure that illustrates the scale of the challenge facing governments around the world.
The IEA analysis showed that current government policies would still lead to global temperatures rising by 2.5C, which would have catastrophic climate impacts. That would be far above the target of limiting global heating to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels. The 1.5C target, agreed at the Paris climate conference, would prevent the worst effects of climate breakdown.
The analysis adds to a consensus among scientists that governments are not doing enough to prevent climate disaster. A separate UN study, published on Wednesday, also found that government pledges so far to cut emissions will lead to 2.5C of heating.
The wave of clean energy investment will also cost Russia $1tn in lost fossil fuel revenues by 2030 compared with before the invasion, Birol said. Russia, previously the world's largest exporter of fossil fuels, would have a "much diminished role in international energy affairs" as the world's reliance on burning methane gas for power falls, he added.
"The golden age of gas is approaching the end," Birol said.
Birol said the crisis had not changed the IEA's assessment, first published last year, that all new fossil fuel projects should stop immediately in order for the world to hit net zero emissions by 2050. New oil and gas extraction projects "will jeopardise our climate goals", he said.
He also dismissed criticism from some climate deniers that spending on clean energy had contributed to higher energy prices, saying that argument was "hiding who sparked the energy crisis, which is Russia". The IEA found that higher shares of renewable energy were correlated with lower electricity prices.
"None of the government leaders complained about too much clean energy," Birol said. "They complain that they don't have enough clean energy."
Seventy per cent of regional Australians in renewable energy zones support the development of renewable energy projects on local farmland, a new survey has found.
The survey, conducted for lobby group Farmers for Climate Action, found that support for renewable energy developments increased to 73% for people connected to the farming industry, but was conditional on concerns around consultation, project design and decommissioning being met.
Just 17% of respondents said they opposed renewable energy developments, with 8% strongly opposed.
The Farmers for Climate Action chief executive, Natalie Collard, said the results showed the "silent majority" of farmers support the renewable transition, despite an increasingly loud campaign by anti-renewable voices.
Collard said the survey, which included a poll of 1,000 people and a smaller focus group discussion among 19 farmers, including "a lot of detractors", showed that those who vocally opposed renewable energy developments and those who said they would support them on their land shared the same concerns.
Those concerns were the potential impact of a project on their ongoing use of the land for farming, a fear they would be left with the costs of decommissioning and a general distrust of developers. Whether that translated to a broader opposition to all renewable energy developments depended on the individual's general trust in government to hold developers to account, Collard said.
Anti-renewable campaigners have marched on Canberra twice and held packed community meetings throughout New South Wales and Queensland, backed by National party politicians and a pledge by the Nationals leader, David Littleproud, that the Coalition would cap renewable energy investment if elected.
Collard said most of the concerns raised could be addressed through the government introducing national standards for the conduct of developers, including guidelines around decommissioning and consultation.
Decommissioning plans, which are already required as part of the approvals process, should be made readily available on developers' websites, and developers should also use social media to better engage with the community, she said.
Land use concerns could be ameliorated by giving farmers a say in project design, the survey found.
"We know that a lot of developers are already acting to a high standard," Collard said. "They are not the ones that are letting the sector down.
"Some developers are opting to pay the fine rather than do community consultation. That should not even be an option."
Farmers who supported renewable energy developments said the income security from hosting a project- which averages $40,000 per wind turbine per annum or $1,200 per hectare for a solar farm - could "drought proof" their business.
A livestock and cropping farmer from NSW told the focus group: "The biggest benefit would be a constant source of income regardless of seasonal conditions and livestock prices. This is very important to me, particularly given the current returns in agriculture."
Collard said an analysis by the Clean Energy Council found large-scale wind and solar projects could deliver up to $11.7bn to farmers in landholder payments by 2050.
"It's incredible to me that there are some voices in agriculture that are prepared to take away choice from farmers who want to host renewables and make money from it," she said. "That's something I have never seen in Australian agriculture before and I am just shocked that it's not held to account."
#130
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has helped ignite a boom in clean energy investment which will significantly outpace spending on fossil fuels, according to the International Energy Agency.
A report from the IEA has found that clean energy investment is on track to reach $1.7tn (£1.4tn) this year as investors turn to renewables, electric vehicles, nuclear power, grids, storage and other low-carbon technologies.
At the same time investment in coal, gas and oil will rise to just over $1tn, the IEA said.
The Paris-based agency found that clean energy investments have been boosted by many factors including periods of strong economic growth and volatile fossil fuel prices as well as heightened concerns about energy security after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Fatih Birol, the executive director of the IEA, said: "Clean energy is moving fast - faster than many people realise. This is clear in the investment trends, where clean technologies are pulling away from fossil fuels.
"In very simple, but very striking terms, five years ago global energy investment was $2tn, of which $1tn was for clean energy and $1tn was for fossil fuels. Today, $1tn is for fossil fuels and $1.7tn is for clean energy. This is a dramatic shift which will have consequences for the energy markets and climate change. In my view, it's very exciting."
The clean energy boom is particularly apparent in solar power investment, Birol said. "For the first time in history the amount of investment going to solar is higher than the amount going to oil production. It may be symbolic but it is very important because it shows the tide turning," he said.
Clean energy investment has climbed steadily in recent years as governments and investors have sought to take advantage of the low cost of renewables such as wind and solar power.
In contrast, investment in fossil fuels plunged during the Covid-19 pandemic when severe travel restrictions caused demand for transport fuels to plummet, leading to a collapse in energy commodity prices.
The IEA report showed that clean energy investment has accelerated well beyond spending on gas, coal and oil as governments become increasingly concerned about developing secure, homegrown energy sources.
However, the IEA report warned that Russia's war in Ukraine has also prompted increased investment in upstream oil and gas, which is expected to rise by 7% in 2023 in a return to 2019 levels.
At the same time global coal demand reached an all-time high in 2022, in part owing to record high gas prices, which has spurred estimated coal investment for this year to nearly six times the levels that are aligned with global 2030 climate targets.
Birol said the single most important barrier facing the expansion of renewable energy remains problems with projects being able to connect to electricity grids.
"We are seeing a pipeline of projects in Europe, US and Asia and Africa where the grid is the main problem. If you cannot reduce permitting time we will not be able to see the rapid expansion of renewables," he said.
In the UK, developers of renewable energy projects have complained that they have been forced to wait for more than a decade to connect to the electricity grid.
#131
Two-thirds of applications to build renewable energy projects in Great Britain have failed to get through the planning stage over the past five years, hampering efforts to shift towards clean electricity generation.
A study of Britain's "renewables pipeline" found that 63% of mooted projects were either abandoned, refused planning permission, or an application was withdrawn or ultimately expired between 2018 and 2023. The remainder of the applications were either approved or revised, according to the research by the consultancy Cornwall Insight.
Renewable energy developers have bemoaned the difficulty in gaining planning permission for projects - from offshore windfarms to onshore solar and battery storage developments - and waiting times to connect to Britain's electricity grid of more than a decade.
The research found no region of Great Britain had a success rate higher than 20% of projects gaining planning permission. Cornwall Insight said "speculative and duplicate applications" were in part to blame, citing reports that "phantom" energy projects were holding back efforts to decarbonise the grid.
Last year, a report commissioned by Centrica, the owner of British Gas, claimed that some developers were applying to connect projects to the grid that did not even have land rights or planning consent applications.
National Grid and Ofgem, the industry regulator, have attempted to remove "zombie projects" - those that have been approved but have stopped being developed - from the connections queue. The problem has also been blamed for years-long delays to new housing schemes.
Lucy Dolton, the assets and infrastructure manager at Cornwall Insight, said: "It's clear that an increasing number of the applications submitted are speculative, raising the numbers in the connections queue, and creating obstacles for projects that are mostly ready to connect."
The amount of electricity generated by the UK's gas and coal power plants fell by 20% last year to its lowest level since 1957. Renewable energy provided the single largest source of power at 42%, although gas power plants still accounted for 31%.
The Conservatives have set a goal to decarbonise the electricity grid by 2035, while Labour is targeting 2030. Both parties have pledged to slim down the planning regime if they win next month's general election.
The Conservatives have promised to speed up the average time it takes to sign off a big infrastructure project from four years to one year.
Labour has said it will update planning policies and fund extra planning officers. The party has made energy policy a central pillar of its election campaign. It has pledged to set up a state-owned company, Great British Energy, and set targets to double onshore wind, quadruple offshore wind and triple solar power by 2030 in an effort to ultimately hit the UK's legally binding commitment to reach net zero by 2050.
However, the party was also accused of making the "mother of all U-turns" in February, dropping a plan to invest £28bn a year in green energy.
Dolton added: "The total capacity of projects in the grid connection queue is currently well in excess of what is necessary for net zero generation capacity. However, considering the lengthy process for projects to progress through planning and gain grid connections, and the current volume of projects that are unsuccessful, the amount of this capacity that will ultimately connect could be much lower than the pipeline of projects suggests."
Campaigners have argued that allowing renewable developments on a relatively small proportion of extra land could make a significant difference. Research by Friends of the Earth and the University of Exeter this year found that England could produce 13 times more renewable energy than it did now, while using less than 3% of its land.
#132
Solar and wind power generation will fall well below the target needed to decarbonise Great Britain's electricity grid by 2030 without an injection of £48bn, according to a forecast from one of the UK's leading energy analysis companies.
The government has promised to deliver a zero-carbon electricity system by 2030, requiring the doubling of onshore wind, tripling of solar power and quadrupling of offshore wind capacity.
Cornwall Insight, which has emerged in recent years as one of the leading energy forecasters, warned that hitting that target would require a "step-change" to close the renewable investment gap. 

Under current projections, solar and wind are on course to account for 44% of Great Britain's electricity by 2030, the analyst said, well below the 67% that would be required to remove fossil fuels from the power generation system.
Under its projections, gas would still account for 19% of electricity generation by 2030, more than either solar, onshore wind or offshore wind.
Cornwall said an additional £48bn would be needed, on top of £18bn that scheduled energy infrastructure projects are expected to cost, to meet the government's goal for renewables.
However, it warned that achieving such a transformation would be a "substantial challenge" because of a combination of funding constraints, supply chain problems, limited port capacity and the need to build many more links into the National Grid.
"Attracting that investment is going to be critical to delivery," Cornwall said, adding that schemes such as "contracts for difference", which lock in returns for investors by setting a fixed price for electricity, might be needed.
The Cornwall principal modeller, Tom Edwards, said: "International competition for project development coupled with material shortages are challenging issues that often lie beyond a government's control.
"Additionally, updates to grid connections, increased storage and a whole plethora of other policy changes will be needed to make a 2030 zero-carbon power system a realistic target.
"The swift actions of the new government, such as lifting the de facto ban on onshore wind, are encouraging. However, much more needs to be done to turn decarbonisation promises into a reality."
A government spokesperson said: "We are taking immediate action implementing our long-term plan to make Britain a clean energy superpower.
"In just one week, we have swept away barriers to onshore windfarms, consented more solar power than has been installed in the past year and set out plans for a solar rooftop revolution.
"Investing in clean power is the only way to guarantee our energy security and protect bbill payers permanently, which is why we will double onshore wind, treble solar and quadruple offshore wind by 2030."
Labour's main policy on renewable power is the creation of the state-owned company GB Energy to invest in wind, solar and other projects. The government has also announced plans to speed up the planning process to get new power projects off the ground sooner.
Last week, the government's climate watchdog, the Climate Change Committee, warned that policies put in place by Rishi Sunak's government had left the UK on course to meet only about a third of the emissions cuts necessary to reach the UK's Paris agreement target of cutting carbon by 68% by 2030.
#133
The war in Ukraine and spike in the price of natural gas have underlined the benefits of switching to "green hydrogen" production as the only "net zero energy gas", according to the British firm ITM Power.
The Sheffield-based company, which manufactures electrolyser machines that make hydrogen from water, said the energy crisis had shown hydrogen represents a viable alternative to methane gas.
However, widening losses and the departure of the company's longstanding chief executive, Graham Cooley, spooked investors, with shares in ITM falling 26% in early trading on Wednesday.
Most hydrogen is "grey hydrogen" produced from fossil gas. An alternative to this process is "blue hydrogen", which uses carbon capture to reduce emissions, but this method still fails to capture between 5% and 15% of the CO2. Green hydrogen is produced by splitting water using electricity from renewables, with minimal emissions.
Backers of the technology argue that hydrogen could present a solution to decarbonising heavy, polluting industries. There are questions, however, over the method's cost.
Cooley said that since the start of the year, as prices of methane and fertiliser have increased, green hydrogen has "achieved first parity and then become cheaper in many cases than producing these commodities from gas feedstocks".
He added: "There is only one net zero energy gas that can replace methane to help the world address climate change. Green hydrogen can also help to deliver energy security and contribute to food security through the production of green ammonia for fertilisers.
"These abilities have become very powerful drivers for our business as governments seek to accelerate the share of intermittent renewables in their countries' energy mix to address dependence on weaponised gas supply from Russia."
ITM, which is listed on London's AIM exchange, posted revenues of £5.6m for 2022, up from £4.3m a year earlier. However, pre-tax losses widened from £27.6m to £46.7m. Last November, the company raised £250m to expand its manufacturing capacity. Cooley, who has led the company for 13 years, will remain in post until a successor is found.
Hydrogen has long been touted as a significant option for the future of fuel. The government published a hydrogen strategy in August 2021, setting out a target to double the UK's hydrogen production to 10 gigawatts by 2030.
Last month the Guardian revealed that ScottishPower is planning to build a £150m green hydrogen plant at the Port of Felixstowe to power trains, trucks and ships. The company said demand for the green fuel had stepped up since petrol and diesel prices began to soar last year, emboldening the firm to invest.
#134
The energy crisis is hitting UK household budgets harder than any country in western Europe, according to analysis by the International Monetary Fund. The difference between the cost burden on poor and rich households is also far more unequal in the UK compared with other countries.
The reason is the UK's heavy reliance on gas to heat homes and produce electricity at a time when Russia's war in Ukraine has sent gas prices soaring. In addition, the UK has the least energy efficient homes in western Europe.
There is widespread agreement from energy experts on the best solutions: a large-scale and rapid insulation programme and a faster rollout of wind and solar energy, which produce electricity that is currently about nine times cheaper than that from gas, as well as short-term financial support for bill-payers. The government has consistently failed over the past decade to deliver major insulation programmes and has effectively banned onshore wind.
The IMF analysis assessed the impact of the energy crisis expected over the whole of 2022, based on forward fossil fuel prices in May, since when prices have risen. It found that the average UK household is expected to lose 8.3% of its total spending power in 2022, as a result of having to pay higher energy bills. The figure in Germany and Spain is 4%, while only Estonian and Czech households face higher impacts than the UK in the whole of Europe.
Energy bill rises also push up the costs of other goods, as sellers pass on the price rises. These indirect effects will knock another 2% off the money UK households have to spend in 2022. The IMF analysis takes account of people reducing their energy use as prices rise.
"The distributional impact is especially skewed [in the UK]," said Oya Celasun from the IMF. The poorest 10% of UK households are expected to spend 17.8% of their budget on energy in 2022, while the richest 10% will spend 6.1%, the analysis found. The difference of 11.7 percentage points is by far the greatest disparity among the 25 European countries assessed. In France, the difference is 3.9 percentage points and in the Netherlands, 2.5.
Analysis by Deutsche Bank also shows UK bill-payers are being hit hard by the energy crisis. It found that consumer price inflation for gas and electricity in the UK in 2022 is forecast to be about 80%, compared with an average of 40% across the 19 countries that use the euro.
"The UK has higher energy prices, comparative to other economies in Europe" said Sanjay Raja, the chief UK economist at Deutsche Bank. "The fact of the matter is the UK is more highly dependent on gas."
The vast majority of homes in the UK - 85% - use gas to provide heat, a legacy of exploitation of North Sea gas fields, which are now in decline. In France and Germany, fewer than 50% of homes are heated with gas.
The UK also relied on gas to produce more terawatt hours of electricity in 2021 than any of the 39 European countries analysed by the thinktank Ember, except Italy. Electricity from gas is the most expensive for power and sets the price for all electricity, due to the current UK market structure.
In terms of the share of electricity generated by gas, the UK is at 40%, Germany at 15% and Denmark at 6%. "The UK energy crisis is a fossil gas crisis," said Sarah Brown at Ember. "The UK's reliance on fossil gas is punishing ordinary people."
"Another of the key differences is that houses in the UK are incredibly inefficient," said Lisa Fischer at the thinktank E3G. The UK's leaky homes are the least efficient in western Europe, according to one analysis: UK homes lose 3C in temperature in the same time that German homes lose just 1C. The people living in the two-thirds of UK homes that are energy inefficient, rated D or worse, will pay at least £1,000 more this winter.
The solution to the UK's energy crisis is much better insulation, replacing gas boilers with heat pumps and speeding up the deployment of renewable energy, said Raja. Short-term measures include reducing the flow temperature on condensing gas boilers and replacing home appliances with more energy-efficient models, said Fischer.
Further financial support for UK households will also be necessary, but Celasun, at the IMF, said this should be targeted at vulnerable households: "For instance, it would be full compensation for the poor and support could be reduced gradually as incomes rise." She said completely compensating price increases for everyone would remove a strong incentive to consume less energy, which cuts both costs and climate heating carbon emissions.
Jess Ralston, at the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, said: "The government currently has no serious plan for cutting our gas dependency, so the new prime minister would need to rapidly ramp up existing energy efficiency programmes. With the gas price so high, the return on this investment would be extraordinarily quick."
Increasing the supply of gas from the North Sea would not result in sufficient amounts to reduce energy prices, which are set internationally, said Raja: "When it comes to the UK and energy, we are price-takers." Fischer also dismissed the idea that fracking in the UK could alleviate the energy crisis, describing it as "nonsense".
"It's really important to start planning action now, because we know that next winter is likely to be at least as difficult, if not more difficult than this winter," Fischer said. "Germany is starting to line up things, especially on financing for building efficiency and switching to heat pumps. In the UK, there's an absolute lack of trying to do those things that help you permanently insulate people from higher energy prices."
#135
The world's leading energy economist has warned against investing in large new oil and gas developments, which would have little impact on the current energy crisis and soaring fuel prices but spell devastation to the planet.
Fatih Birol, the executive director of the International Energy Agency (IEA), was responding to an investigation in the Guardian that revealed fossil fuel companies were planning huge "carbon bomb" projects that would drive climate catastrophe.
He said countries must seek to replace Russian oil and gas in the near term without damaging their long-term prospects.
"I understand some countries may look at new fossil fuels but they should remember it takes many years to start production," he said. "[Such projects] are not the solution to our urgent energy security needs and they will lock in fossil fuel use."
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST
Revelations by the Guardian show nearly 200 carbon bomb projects are in planning, or have already started pumping, that will each result in at least 1bn tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions over their lifetimes, equivalent to about 18 years of current global emissions.
Companies pursuing such developments could end up with uneconomic stranded assets, Birol warned. "If the world is to succeed in moving to net zero, these projects may fail to recover their upfront development costs," he said in an interview with the Guaridan.
Soaring global energy prices have led governments to seek new sources of fossil fuels. "I do understand why countries are reacting like this," he said. "But there is the issue of the time horizon."
Big new exploratory projects for oil, gas and coal would take years to produce any fuel and could lock in high greenhouse gas emissions for decades, Birol warned.
"The most suitable projects are those with short lead times and quick payback periods, such as expanding production from existing fields," he said.
Using existing sources more efficiently would also help reduce emissions, Birol noted.
He said governments must also urgently seek to reduce fossil fuel demand, through home insulation, cutting speed limits, making public transport cheap or free and introducing car-free days in cities.
"If we do not have these voluntary measures, I'm afraid that energy rationing may be on the table," he said.
Birol said unlike in previous oil shocks, such as those of the 1970s, the world now had cheap alternatives available in the form of solar and wind power, which had plummeted in price. This should prompt governments and companies to push harder for renewable energy.
"I believe we have the chance to make this a historic turning point to a cleaner and more secure energy system," he said. "This is the first time I have seen such momentum behind the change to clean energy.
"The world does not need to choose between solving the energy crisis and climate crisis, we can do both."
The UN secretary general also called for an end to new fossil fuel projects, warning that climate change posed "an existential threat to us all - to the whole world".
Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday, António Guterres said: "Main emitters must drastically cut emissions, starting now. This means accelerating the end of our fossil fuel addiction and speeding up the deployment of clean renewable energy."
The IEA advised almost exactly a year ago that no new gas, oil or coal development could take place from this year onwards if the world was to limit global heating to 1.5C. That finding caused shockwaves among governments in the run-up to the UN Cop26 climate summit in Glasgow in November, where leaders agreed to bring forward national plans in line with the 1.5C limit.
But many countries, and private sector companies, have ignored the advice, as the Guardian's investigation of fossil fuel projects under development has shown. These carbon bombs would in effect eliminate any hope of staying within the 1.5C threshold.
Greg Muttitt, an energy expert at the International Institute for Sustainable Development, said: "Governments and companies often suffer from a form of cognitive dissonance: while recognising the urgency and severity of the climate threat, they still keep developing new oil, gas and coalfields and mines that will worsen the problem. The policy answer is a simple one: when in a hole, you need to stop digging."
Greenpeace said the Guardian's investigation revealed the "fossil fuel industry's business model remains a blueprint for climate catastrophe".
"Investment plans by oil and gas firms will blow us past every assessment of what is safe for the climate, and that's shocking," said the group's senior climate adviser Charlie Kronick.
"But what's truly shocking is that they are not hiding it. These activities are legal and in fact are encouraged by governments around the world, particularly the ones that have the biggest reserves and the most to lose."
Caroline Lucas, an MP for the UK's Green party, said in response to the Guardian's investigation: "Governments seem intent on sending us towards our own destruction. How many more times must we tell fossil fuel companies to #keepitintheground?"
Ed Miliband, the shadow climate change and net zero secretary, said: "The answer to a global fossil fuel crisis cannot be to double down on fossil fuels. Every country must go further to rapidly accelerate the transition to clean energy.
"That's the right response to the climate crisis, but it's also the right response to the cost of living and energy security crises too - with renewables now by far the cheapest and most secure form of energy.
"Governments around the world should be urgently investing in a green energy sprint to shift decisively off destructive, expensive, and volatile fossil fuels for good."
136
The failure by governments and businesses to accelerate energy efficiency efforts is "inexplicable", according to the head of the International Energy Agency.
Fatih Birol said saving more energy was "utterly essential" in cutting household's rocketing bills, ending reliance on fossil fuel regimes such as Russia, and rapidly lowering the CO2 emissions driving the climate crisis.
New analysis by the IEA showed that doubling the rate of energy efficiency improvements seen in the last decade would, by 2030, slash global energy use by the same amount used in China every year, saving households $650bn. It would also cut oil and gas use by far more than Russia exports to the EU. Ending these exports is a key EU goal after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The IEA said greater efficiency could be readily achieved with existing technologies and would pay back fully the investment through lower running costs, especially at today's high energy prices. Important measures include the rollout of electric cars and heat pumps, more efficient household appliances such as fridges and TVs, and people nudging down home thermostats and choosing greener travel.
In the UK, making homes warmer and cheaper to heat through better insulation is key. The UK government has committed £37bn to helping households with energy bills but has not announced any new efficiency measures, leading critics to accuse ministers of spending billions but still leaving people "at the mercy of global oil and gas prices".
Launching the IEA report, Birol said: "Energy efficiency is a critical solution to so many of the world's most urgent challenges. But inexplicably, government and business leaders are failing to sufficiently act on this.
"The oil shocks of the 1970s set in motion major advances in efficiency, and it is utterly essential that efficiency is at the heart of the response to today's global energy crisis," he said.
Denmark is hosting an IEA summit on energy efficiency, attended by dozens of ministers from around the world. The country's climate and energy minister, Dan Jørgensen, said: "It's no longer a question of whether we should implement more energy efficient solutions globally - it's a question of how we are going to do that. By increasing our energy efficiency, we can reduce our dependence on Russian oil and gas completely, and move closer to achieving climate neutrality."
The IEA report used energy intensity - the amount of energy used per dollar of GDP - as its measure of energy efficiency. Increasing the rate of improvement from 2% a year, seen from 2010 to 2020, to 4% would lead to a cut in energy use equivalent to 5bn tonnes a year of CO2 by 2030. This is the same amount emitted by the US today and a third of the global emissions cut needed to prevent the worst effects of the climate crisis.
This global push for energy efficiency would also cut oil use by almost 30m barrels a day - about three times Russia's production in 2021. It would also reduce gas use by four times the amount the EU imported from Russia in 2021, and help create 10m new jobs, the IEA said.
Energy efficiency advances have already had a huge effect on global emissions, with improvements since 2000 resulting in 8bn tonnes of CO2 emissions a year being avoided. This is close to the annual output of China, the world's biggest polluter.
"The leaders meeting at the IEA [summit] needs to make this the moment when the world hits the accelerator on efficiency, or we may pay the price for years to come," said Birol.
Kim Fausing, CEO of engineering company Danfoss, said: "We don't need to wait. We need action because the greenest energy is the energy we don't use."
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST

The UK government approved a new gas field in the North Sea last week and new tax breaks could see £8bn of additional projects, according to analysts.
Michael Bradshaw, professor of global energy at Warwick Business School, said: "Investing in fossil fuel production is not compatible with the Paris Agreement. The 'no regrets' solution is a reduction in fossil fuel consumption through efficiency, demand reduction, and an increase in clean energy sources."
On Tuesday Tony Danker, director-general of the Confederation of British Industry, called on the UK government to make "an all-out national effort" on energy efficiency, saying people must not be left "at the mercy of global oil and gas prices". He said: "Do we want a new normal of energy efficiency or a new normal of billion-pound bailouts every quarter?"
A new report from green thinktank E3G sets out an £8bn efficiency strategy to upgrade more than 3m homes by 2025, saving families between £450 and £1,000 a year.
Senior policy adviser Juliet Phillips said: "The UK government must decide whether it wants to go on spending £37bn a year just to stand still, or to invest now in permanent solutions for lower bills."
#137
Britain will be plunged into an even worse energy crisis in a year's time without an immediate plan to improve leaky homes and dramatically reduce demand for gas, ministers have been warned.
The UK ranks among the worst in Europe for the energy efficiency of its homes, according to new research outlining an urgent need to reduce the amount of heat being wasted. Experts are warning that while Liz Truss has bought the government time with her £100bn-plus package to cap energy bills, similarly expensive and unsustainable schemes will be needed unless substantial plans are introduced to improve homes and reduce demand.
Truss's energy package, a measure likely to define her premiership, is already under pressure for a lack of detail. There is further concern that additional help will need to be targeted at the poorest households, while the relatively short-term assistance handed to businesses will also be raised by business groups in the coming weeks.
While Truss pointed to fracking and the expansion of North Sea fossil fuels as a way of increasing the supply of energy, she has already been warned that this will fail to dent prices - while damaging Britain's commitment to tackling the climate crisis. Instead, she is being urged to copy successful policies in Germany and elsewhere to improve the energy efficiency of the UK's houses to reduce demand.
Research from the Institute for Government (IfG) found the UK scored worse than countries right across Europe with a range of climates in terms of the energy efficiency of its homes. Citing analysis of a 2020 study, it found that a UK home with an indoor temperature of 20C and an outside temperature of 0C lost on average 3C after five hours - up to three times as much as homes in European countries such as Germany.
The analysis concludes that UK households and businesses "are likely to still be facing high energy bills in the winter of 2023 - quite possibly beyond that". It adds: "If the government focuses only on short-term financial support, and long-term measures unlikely to have a major impact, it will find itself in an even more difficult position in a year's time."
The UK is particularly vulnerable to spikes in the price of gas. More than four-fifths of UK homes are currently still heated by gas boilers, which is much higher than most countries. The UK's housing stock is also the oldest and least energy efficient in Europe. More than 52% of homes in England were built before 1965 and nearly 20% were built before 1919.
The IfG analysis warns that energy prices are now expected to rise further and stay higher for longer than had been expected earlier in the crisis, with prices potentially remaining as much as four times higher than historic rates into 2025. It means another huge rescue package could be needed unless Truss acts on reducing demand for gas.
Experts believe a serious energy-efficiency programme could have a real impact within a year. The institute pointed to Germany as a success story, where grants, low-interest loans, tax rebates and free expert advice have all been used, resulting in high take-up figures.
Britain's housing stock is among the oldest in Europe. Photograph: Tim Goode/PA
"Energy efficiency is a giant hole in Liz Truss's energy plan," said Tom Sasse, associate director at the IfG. "Bills have gone through the roof - and show little sign of coming down soon - yet the government has no plan to tackle the fact that we have the draughtiest homes in Europe.
"Borrowing huge sums to freeze energy bills only makes sense if we also have a plan to reduce demand. Announcing a national mission to boost energy efficiency - learning from successes abroad - could make a real difference in reducing the pain coming for households and businesses."
The costs of Truss's plan will be unveiled this month in a fiscal statement to be made by the new chancellor, Kwasi Kwarteng. The prime minister has ruled out using a windfall tax on suppliers to fund the scheme, which Labour has demanded. However, there are already calls for the statement to back further help for the poorest households, who face added pressures from inflation.
The Centre for Social Justice, a thinktank with close connections to senior Conservatives, including the former party leader Iain Duncan Smith, is calling for an increase in universal credit to help the group. "Frankly, it's an injustice not to be using the welfare system in the way that we can to help people," said Joe Shalam, its policy director. "Universal credit is the way to do that. We saw it deliver during the pandemic. It is one of the most advanced social security systems in the world."
The Joseph Rowntree Foundation has calculated that, including all government programmes, a gap of around £800 remains that low-income families will have to find this winter. It leaves them at risk of poverty or at the mercy of high-interest loans.
#138

The climate change minister, Chris Bowen, will declare trenchant opponents of climate action in Australian politics and the media are using the cost-of-living crisis and soaring energy prices as cover to resume lying about the energy transition.
In the wake of a new Guardian Essential poll that suggests some Australians believe renewables are a significant contributor to higher power prices, Bowen will use a speech in Sydney on Wednesday to argue the current global energy crisis underlines the need for a faster and more orderly transition to renewables, because renewables are the cheapest form of generation.
The climate minister will warn that long-term opponents of action to address the climate crisis - a coterie he characterises as "the usual suspects" - are already using increases in the cost of living and soaring power bills as a justification to "delay or avoid the need to decarbonise and drive towards renewables".

Bowen will point to a "daily drip feed of editorials and opinion pieces" in recent weeks blaming high power prices on renewable technology rather than the critical causal factor, which is the global shock in energy markets created by Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine.
The climate minister will note the promulgators of this line "are the same people who have moved from excuse to excuse, alibi to alibi, to avoid climate action, and have denied Australia the benefits of taking real action on climate over the last decade".
The opposition leader, Peter Dutton, used his recent budget reply speech to target the government over its push to reach 82% renewables by 2030, contending it would only add to the cost of electricity bills for struggling families and businesses.
The latest Guardian Essential poll underscores the potential salience of Dutton's contentions. It shows respondents are more inclined to blame profiteering by energy companies or "efforts to fight climate change, such as the shift towards renewable energy" than the war in Ukraine for a significant increase in power bills.
The poll also confirms most people want governments to intervene in the market to deliver consumer price relief.
Bowen will say the Albanese government is working with states and regulators on a regulatory intervention to help address high power prices, after an "honest" Treasury forecast in last week's budget pointed to a 56% increase over this year and next.
Bowen will use Wednesday's speech to double down on Labor's plans to roll out high voltage transmission infrastructure to accommodate more renewable generation in the national electricity grid, and push back against the political positioning.
"We cannot let, and the government will not let, the current crisis interrupt our drive towards cleaner, cheaper, renewable energy," the climate minister will say.
"This transition is even more important - not only for reasons of climate, as compelling as those reasons are - but also because renewable energy is the cheapest form of energy, which is rather handy in an affordability crisis."
Bowen will note that a majority of Australians voted for more serious action to address the threat of the climate crisis in the federal election, but that doesn't mean the decade-long climate wars are over.
He will say the Liberal and National parties are intent on promulgating a debate about nuclear energy as a "rearguard attempt to undermine and deny the transition to renewables".
Bowen will argue the small modular nuclear reactors championed by some in politics and the media have the status of "someday, maybe, reality", because none are licensed and no projects have achieved financial close.
"I raise this strongly because we need to be vigilant in the climate debate," Bowen will say.
"Whilst the May election was a big step forward in ending the climate wars, and resulted in the election of a government with a strong climate agenda and a progressive majority in both chambers, we should not pretend that there are no voices seeking to take us backwards, and they must be countered if we are to ensure the progress we are making is cemented in."
Bowen will underscore the point by reprising what happened after the last major climate election.
"In 2007, a Labor government was elected with a strong climate agenda, and the Liberal party took an emissions trading scheme to that election.
"It was widely thought that we had reached a national consensus on climate change. It wasn't to be."
Bowen will argue it is important to speak plainly about what has happened in the past, saying for too long, too many politicians and commentators have got away with telling Australians that action on climate change comes at the expense of their economic security.
"It's always been a lie," the climate minister will say. "It's never been more than a lie today, with the economic opportunities for Australia replete before us.
"It now falls to us make that opportunity a reality, and to engage the Australian people in a frank and open conversation as we do so. And that's exactly what we intend to do."
#139

Gas producers and their financial backers see Cop27 as an opportunity for discussions about rebranding natural gas as a transition fuel rather than a fossil fuel, experts have said.
The push is coming from the host Egypt and its gas-producing allies amid a global energy crisis compounded by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"The opportunity for this Cop is to have the discussion openly that natural gas, and in particular when combined with carbon capture, is a scalable energy solution allowing us to meet the needs of 8 billion people while still meeting our climate goals," said Craig Golinowski, of Carbon Infrastructure Partners, a Canadian private equity fund backing projects related to fossil fuels as well as carbon capture.
Environmental experts caution that burning gas, a fossil fuel, risks increasing warming far beyond the target restriction of 1.5C required to prevent major environmental disruption.
Gas is less polluting to the climate than coal, but its production involves harmful methane, and leaks from infrastructure can cause large-scale pollution. In addition, experts such as the Washington DC-based Environmental Working Group warn that carbon capture risks delaying the essential transition away from fossil fuels, calling it a licence for the fossil fuel industry to keep polluting.
"Natural gas is really the only proven way to lower emissions at scale. If we don't have enough energy, we get more emissions," Golinowski said, suggesting a theory that a shortage of natural gas automatically involves increasing usage of coal rather than renewable energy sources, as many advocate. "I think the binary framing of oil and gas as bad, wind and solar as good is really a disaster," he added.
Golinowski is not planning to attend Cop27 but will be keeping a close eye on the discussions. In particular, he said he would rely on members of the German natural gas industry and their lobbyists to advocate "for a larger global gas market", as Germany represents the centre of a European energy crisis sparked by the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February.
In the year since Cop26 in Glasgow, which included the launch of the Beyond Oil and Gas Alliance, intended to "deliver a managed and just transition away from oil and gas production", Russia's invasion of Ukraine and Moscow's decision to halt natural gas supplies to Europe have prompted a marked shift in global attitudes towards natural gas, laying the ground for discussions at Cop27 between world leaders and gas producers about whether gas should be viewed as a transition fuel and not a fossil fuel.
"I think what we see right now, because of Russia, is that we are still going to need gas for some or whole part of this transition - no one's naive enough to think you can turn off all gas usage tomorrow and we're going to be fine," said Nazmeera Moola, the chief sustainability officer at the South African investment firm Ninety One. "Then you add in the high price of gas at the moment, and it certainly starts to look attractive."
Moola said the hunt to replace Russia's vast gas supply to Europe was likely to influence discussions about exploring new gas reserves across Africa, despite calls to resist this in favour of meeting emissions targets, calling this shift "a new view" on exploiting African gas reserves. Asked whether this would influence discussions between the major gas producers, policymakers and diplomats gathered at Cop27, she said: "Will that conversation happen inside meetings? Sure."
Vikram Singh, of the sustainable energy nonprofit the Rocky Mountain Institute, said: "It's all due to the Ukraine crisis, I think we can thank Putin for that. This is Putin's energy's crisis, but the global north had a real chance to respond by using the opportunity to promote renewables as they adapt their own economies - but what we see is easy answers like Germany firing up coal plants and searching for new gas on the African continent.
"We know there is pressure being applied, not only by big oil and gas companies, but certain high-level delegations from the Middle East present at this year's Cop."
Singh said oil and gas producers were guilty of what he called "doublespeak," on the issue of the energy transition, with public statements rarely matching their private actions.
"We were very hopeful at Cop26 to see oil and gas companies there participating. To give them credit, during recent panels we've participated in, oil and gas companies are saying the right things about [the energy] transition," he said. "But behind closed doors, they're still pushing a very dangerous product, one that in the short term is too rich for them to give up, so we find a double game at play here, and as many climate negotiations take place behind closed doors, we're trying to shine a light on countries taking positions on issues like gas."
Egypt's goal to become a major natural gas exporter could also prove a boon to natural gas lobbyists and advocates attending the conference. At Cop26, fossil fuel lobbyists numbered 503 representatives, a larger amount than any single country delegation, and similar numbers were expected at Cop27.
Egypt hosted a meeting of the Gas Exporting Countries Forum shortly before Cop27 began, including representatives from the Cop28 host, the United Arab Emirates. Ministers declared after the meeting that "Cop27 and Cop28 present a great opportunity to make a case for gas in the energy transition", while the Cop27 president, Sameh Shoukry, recently called natural gas "a transitional source of energy".
BP, which produces almost 60% of Egypt's vast natural gas reserves and whose CEO, Bernard Looney, has close ties with the Egyptian president, Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, declined to answer questions about its presence at Cop27, including how many delegates would be present or its aims for the conference.
In an email from March this year, provided to the Guardian via a freedom of information request made by the group Culture Unstained, the British ambassador to Cairo, Gareth Bailey, discussed BP's plans around renewable energy sources versus natural gas with a colleague from the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office in London. "BP Egypt ... was friendly but low-key about BP plans in green energy. They said they had their hands full with gas, so were unlikely to be doing much," he said.
Representatives from countries most vulnerable to climate change were horrified by the potential push to promote natural gas at Cop27. "Anyone who's read an IPCC or IEA report, or even their own energy bill for this winter, should know that investing in gas is the wrong choice. It's the epitome of short-term gains for long-term losses. Renewables are already the frontrunner - that is the smart, clean, cheap investment today," said John Silk, of the Marshall Islands, whose territory risks being partially submerged by rising oceans as soon as 2035.
#140
enewable energy is set for an unprecedented boom in the US in the wake of its first ever climate bill, with the capacity of solar and wind projects expected to double by the end of the decade and providing the bulk of total American electricity supply, new analysis has shown.
The passage of the legislation, known as the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), will help propel the US towards the forefront of the clean energy economy, experts predict, helping it compete with China on the manufacturing and installation of solar panels, wind turbines, batteries and emerging zero carbon technology.



The tax credits contained in the bill's $370bn of climate spending should help double the capacity of installed wind and solar by 2030, according to an updated analysis by the research firm Energy Innovation. This extra resource could enable clean electricity to provide anything from 72% to 85% of total US supply by this time, flowing from 795 to 1,053 gigawatts of cumulative solar and wind capacity.
"This bill is going to make it very cheap to create clean electricity - you are going to get an incredible amount of deployment of solar and wind," said Robbie Orvis, a senior director of analysis at Energy Innovation.
"It will really unleash investment in renewables. It has all the incentives to grow the industry domestically. It's a complete jump-start for renewables."
About $180bn in extra capital investment in renewables could be spent by 2030, according to Energy Innovation. A separate research group, Rystad Energy, has forecast even more will be funneled into the sector - about $270bn - leading to hundreds of thousands of new jobs. "The Inflation Reduction Act is a game changer for the US wind and solar industry," said Marcelo Ortega, renewables analyst at Rystad.
Previously, wind and solar developers had to rely upon short-term tax breaks and partner with banks or other large institutions. The new bill provides the certainty of a 10-year tax credit program and allows the credits to be transferrable to the developers themselves. There is also billions of dollars for the domestic manufacturing of clean energy components, as well as rebates for people to buy electric cars.
The White House has said the legislation will save the country as much as $1.9tn in climate-related costs by the mid-point of the century, through reduced deaths and property damage caused by extreme heat, floods, drought and wildfires. Joe Biden has called the bill an "historic moment" and has vowed to slash US emissions in half this decade.
Climate campaigners have welcomed the legislation as a long-overdue breakthrough, although they have criticized aspects of the legislation that throw open large areas of public lands to oil and gas drilling. The concessions to fossil fuels were borne from a compromise struck with Joe Manchin, the centrist Democrat and key swing senate vote who has received more money in donations from the oil and gas industry than any other senator.
Still, even with the extra land and waters given over to drilling, several different analysts have forecast that the US should cut its planet-heating emissions by about 40% by the end of this decade, boosting the global effort to stave off disastrous climate change.
Such predictions could, however, be hampered by variables such as the supply chain problems currently hampering the production of electric vehicles, economic downturns, problems in building out transmission infrastructure to move clean electricity around the country and resistance from local communities to new wind and solar developments.
"Every single number has to be taken with a big grain of salt. There are a lot of big assumptions, but taken together these analyses all show this bill is a big deal and I agree with that," said James Stock, an economist at Harvard University.
"We need to make sure these projects are built - if we go into traditional American project gridlock, that will be a problem. But this promises to be a transformational moment - we will see decarbonization this decade, which is very exciting."
The spending is likely to catch the attention of China, the leader in clean energy production. "It's clear that the Inflation Reduction Act will push the clean energy race into overdrive," said Gernot Wagner, climate economist at Columbia Business School.
"The specific impact, of course, is anyone's guess. That's especially true because the IRA isn't just a continuation of past policies. It's a policy tipping point - and a positive one at that."
141

Europe's energy crisis has sparked a profit surge for National Grid after its subsea power cables connecting the UK to the continent generated greater revenues on the back of record highs in the electricity market.
National Grid secured higher prices to transmit electricity through its cables running from the UK to Belgium and France, and also benefited from the early startup of the North Sea Link, the world's longest subsea power cable, which links the UK to Norway's hydropower.
The FTSE 100 energy company reported first-half profits had increased by 86% to £1.1bn on the same period a year earlier, when Covid-19 lockdowns led to a slowdown in energy markets. The increase was in part helped by record-high electricity prices in the UK in recent months.
The half-year results were also buoyed up by National Grid's acquisition of Western Power Distribution (WPD), the local power grid company running grids for the Midlands, south Wales and south-west England, for £14.2bn in March.
The group added that earnings a share for the full year would be "significantly above the top end" of its 5%-7% guidance at the beginning of the year.
John Pettigrew, the company's chief executive, said National Grid's focus would be on "delivering critical and green investment to enable the decarbonisation of power, transport and heat" to help create a "clean, fair and affordable energy transition" in the UK and US markets.
Laura Hoy, an equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said the WPD acquisition had "juiced overall returns" for National Grid, while the early completion of the UK-France network was "the cherry on top".
Sign up to the daily Business Today email or follow Guardian Business on Twitter at @BusinessDesk
"National Grid's planted itself firmly at the centre of the electric revolution," Hoy said. "It's not often that a utility offers that kind of growth opportunity, so NG could turn out to be somewhat of a gem within the sector."
National Grid runs the subsea cables and the high voltage transmission networks in England and Wales, as well as the regional WPD electricity network, and plans to sell a majority stake in its gas transmission grid, which covers Great Britain, to help pay for the acquisition.
Pettigrew said the sales talks were on track because there was a recognition among potential buyers that "gas will have a role to play" for many years ahead, and the opportunity to invest in solutions to decarbonising the UK's gas system, for example by blending gas with hydrogen.
National Grid also plans to sell the Rhode Island network from its American business, which runs gas and electricity networks in the north-eastern US, by March 2022.
Hoy warned that without the proceeds from these sales National Grid's debt from "could become a crippling burden", and added that "a lot can go wrong in six months".
The earnings surge from National Grid's cables running to Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Norway more than offset the shutdown of one of the UK's most important power cables running from England to France after a fire in September.
The blaze at the Sellindge converter station in Kent forced the shutdown as energy markets rocketed to all-time highs amid global energy supply difficulties.
National Grid said "extensive work" would be needed to bring the 2,000 megawatt (MW) power link back to full service. Around half the cable's capacity remains shut, of which 500MW will return from October 2022 and the final 500MW in December 2022.
#142
The head of the EU executive, has set out plans for windfall taxes, mandatory electricity savings and a cap on the price of Russian gas to limit Kremlin revenues used to finance the "atrocious" war in Ukraine.
Ursula von der Leyen outlined a five-point plan in response to an energy price crisis, driven by the Russian shutdown of the key Nord Stream 1 pipeline but exacerbated by the climate crisis and lingering effects of the Covid pandemic.
Low-carbon energy companies, renewable and nuclear suppliers that have reaped "enormous revenues ... they never dreamed of" from generating electricity will face a cap on their revenues, Von der Leyen said, with proceeds earmarked to help domestic consumers and companies pay "astronomical" bills.
Under EU energy rules, the price of electricity is determined by the cost of the most expensive fuel, usually gas, rather than cheaper renewables and nuclear power. As a result of all-time-high gas prices, low-carbon electricity generators have been rewarded with a big increase in income.
"These revenues do not reflect their production costs," Von der Leyen said. "So it is now time for the consumers to benefit from the low costs of low-carbon sources." The commission, she said, proposed "to re-channel these unexpected profits" to allow member states to support vulnerable households and companies.
Oil and gas companies that have made "massive profits" would also be subject to a windfall tax, which Von der Leyen called a "solidarity contribution".
While she did not mention specific numbers, a leaked document seen by the Guardian shows the commission wants a €200 (£173) per megawatt hour limit to the price of electricity generated by low-carbon technologies. The paper states this "mimics the market outcomes that could be expected were global supply chains functioning normally and not subject to the weaponisation of energy through gas supply disruptions".
The leaked document also reveals that the EU executive wants a mandatory 5% reduction in electricity use in peak hours. This echoes an earlier plan for gas savings, although EU member states decided those efficiency measures should be voluntary, raising questions about whether they will accept a mandatory target.
Finally, Von der Leyen proposed a cap on the price of Russian gas, saying it was necessary to cut revenues that "Putin uses to finance his atrocious war in Ukraine".
The EU has spent nearly €88bn on Russian fossil fuels since the invasion began on 24 February, according to a tracker from the NGO Europe Beyond Coal.
The plan to cap Russian gas ran into immediate opposition from the Czech Republic's industry minister, Jozef Síkela, who is due to chair an EU crisis meeting on Friday. "It's not a constructive proposal," he told the Czech senate, adding that it looked like further "sanctions against Russia [rather] than an actual solution to the energy crisis in Europe".
Criticising the plan from a different angle, Poland argues the bloc should cap the price of all non-EU gas as it fears that targeting Russia will trigger retaliation that will deprive Ukraine of lucrative pipeline transit fees.
Putin threatens to 'freeze' west by cutting gas and oil supplies if price caps imposed - video
Speaking in Vladivostok, Vladimir Putin dismissed attempts to cap the prices of oil and gas as "completely stupid" and "sheer nonsense", while claiming that Russia had enough customers in Asia to ride out the damage. "Will they make political decisions contradicting contracts?" he said. "In that case, we won't supply anything if it goes against our economic interests. We don't supply anything: no gas, no oil, no coal, no heating oil, nothing."
Asked about his comments, Von der Leyen said Russia had already partially or completely cut off gas to 13 EU member states. "We don't give anything any more on these announcements by Russia, because we know they're blackmailing us. The best thing is to fortify ourselves and go towards other suppliers. And have solidarity."
The Kremlin-controlled state energy company Gazprom announced last Friday it would not be restarting gas flows through Nord Stream 1, the biggest pipeline connecting Russia and Europe. While Gazprom blamed "malfunctions" in a turbine along the pipeline, the Kremlin later said it would not resume full gas supplies until Europe lifted sanctions imposed in response to Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine. Before the recent shutdown, gas deliveries from Russia to the EU had fallen to 30% of the 2016-21 average.
Even before the war, Europe was already facing spiralling gas prices as Chinese demand for fuel surged in the economic rebound after the pandemic. Problems have been compounded by the record-breaking hot dry summer that has pushed up demand for air-conditioning, while reducing hydropower from rivers and reservoirs. Meanwhile half of France's ageing fleet of nuclear reactors have been forced offline because of corrosion problems in key pipes and safety checks, reversing the country's traditional role as exporter of electricity to its neighbours.
Von der Leyen said the EU was seeing the effects of climate change and drought and described renewables as "our energy insurance for the future".
The long-awaited plans will be discussed by EU energy ministers in emergency talks on Friday. Von der Leyen - who has been accused of a slow response to the energy price surge - is due to discuss the plans with the bloc's ambassadors on Wednesday, before further diplomatic talks.
#143
Renewable energy projects will be at risk unless governments and companies conduct proper consultation with regional communities and provide local benefits, warns a new report.
The Renewables & Rural Australia report, by the Australia Institute and the University of Sydney's Sydney Environment Institute, recommends strengthening the social licence of renewable initiatives by improving local social and economic outcomes.
Wednesday's report argues that there needs to be better recognition that Australia's shift from coal to renewable energy is not just economic and technological in nature, but also spatial. It found moving electricity generators to rural communities that had not hosted energy utilities at scale before brings physical and social changes.

One of the report's co-authors, Dr Rebecca Pearse from the Australian National University, said regional Australia was doing the country a "terrific service" by hosting the shift to renewable energy.
"So we need to make sure those communities have the mechanisms to negotiate beneficial deals for themselves," Pearse said.
The study examined the Central-West Orana and New England areas in New South Wales because they will be the first two Renewable Energy Zones (REZs) developed in Australia. The authors warned that if local benefits are not maximised, it will risk creating conflict that could delay the clean energy transformation and harm energy security.
Dan Cass, a coauthor of the study from the Australia Institute, said the federal government had been instantly thrust into an energy crisis, but it could ensure that there would be no future crises through better planning.
"If [the federal government] works quickly with state governments to design a fair system for planning and developing REZs, it will be the last energy crisis Australia ever has to face," Cass said.
Cass said the pattern of development with REZs was very different to what has happened in the past.
"We're closing 8,000 megawatts of coal in one area [the Hunter] ... and then you're building tens of thousands of megawatts in all those areas that have never had any generation," Cass said.
The report recommends that the government increase financial benefits for local communities, create stronger First Nations participation, and more sustainable economic development beyond short-term construction booms.
The report also recommends the creation of a mechanism to enable communities to better pool the funds they receive, so that they do not miss out on opportunities for more significant investment projects that may serve the host community better than smaller individual projects and clubs.
Engie's controversial proposal for the Hills of Gold windfarm in the town of Nundle is to offer discounted electricity to local residents, in addition to delivering $210,000 a year to local community initiatives, events and activities to try to ameliorate local opposition.
Megan Trousdale, an executive member of the community group Hills of Gold Preservation Inc, said the proposal was problematic because of the visual impact in a town know for its high scenic value, as well as the environmental impact on the area's biodiversity.
Trousdale said although the proposal was first put forward in 2018, the approval for the project has been consistently delayed and "part of the stress on the community is that determination being pushed out time and time again."
But she said the greatest impact had been the social division it has caused in the community, breaking up friendships and causing conflict in families.
Although the Independent Planning Commission has yet to make a decision on the project's future, Engie has already given seven local organisations $20,000 in grants including to see a food bank established and money for the local swimming club.
Cheryl Sipple, the secretary of the Nundle Sport and Recreation Club, told the Guardian that their club received $1,800 for a deposit for a new dishwasher, as well as $1,200 for a sponsored bowls day later in the year.
Sipple said Nundle had been "dying over the last few years" with no permanent jobs to keep families in town long-term, but the creation of 211 jobs during construction and 16 jobs once operational would help the town make up the jobs that have been lost in the forestry industry.
However, the Tamworth Regional Council has written to the Department of Planning, expressing their opposition to the proposed Hills of Gold windfarm.
The letter said the council "supports renewable energy initiatives" but concludes the site chosen was not suitable and the proposed development was "not in the public interest".
"The development will have an overwhelming negative impact on the communities of Nundle and Hanging Rock and ... the overall cost to the broader Tamworth region from an environmental, financial and social perspective outweighs the potential renewable energy benefits."
A spokesperson for Engie said "leading turbine suppliers and road construction companies have been on site as recently as this month and agree it is a good place for a windfarm.
"We understand that there is opposition, but there are many within the local community who are in favour of it proceeding for the economic and social benefits it will provide," the spokesperson said.
Ernie*, a Nundle resident, would not use his real name for fear of the repercussions in the community. He welcomed the grants and said the funding was changing the minds of many community members.
Richard Croft, a member of the NSW Farmers Association (NSWFA) energy transition working group, told the Guardian that there had been "very poor" long-term planning in the space of renewables by government and its various bodies for over two decades.
Cass said "our key recommendation is to empower communities to be part of decisions about where to build the transmission line, so that then guides the new projects to go in appropriate locations.
"The issue really, is to encourage governments to do ... what you could consider a master plan level of consultation, well in advance of any projects proposed ... if you set the master plan right, then there's less conflict later on," Cass said.
#144
The finance minister of Iraq, one of the founding members of the global oil cartel Opec, has made an unprecedented call to fellow oil producers to move away from fossil fuel dependency and into renewable energy, ahead of a key Opec meeting.
Ali Allawi, who is also the deputy prime minister of Iraq, has written in the Guardian to urge oil producers to pursue "an economic renewal focused on environmentally sound policies and technologies" that would include solar power and potentially nuclear reactors, and reduce their dependency on fossil fuel exports.
Along with the executive director of the International Energy Agency, Fatih Birol, he wrote: "To stand a chance of limiting the worst effects of climate change, the world needs to fundamentally change the way it produces and consumes energy, burning less coal, oil and natural gas ... If oil revenues start to decline before producer countries have successfully diversified their economies, livelihoods will be lost and poverty rates will increase."
Ministers of the 13 Opec member states are scheduled to meet virtually on Wednesday to negotiate potential curbs to production, as oil prices waver. Opec had earlier agreed to boost production as economies recovered from the Covid-19 pandemic, but slowing markets have led some to suggest a halt to the increase.
The US president, Joe Biden, controversially called for Opec to increase oil production further last month, to keep oil prices from rising and assist with the US economic recovery. His plea was rejected.
The Guardian understands Wednesday's Opec meeting may also discuss the climate crisis, in an unusual move for the fossil fuel producers, before vital UN climate talks called Cop26, scheduled for Glasgow in November.
Allawi and Birol suggested current oil price volatility, driven by the pandemic, was only the beginning of problems for producers. The climate crisis will not only require a move away from oil, but will strike the Middle East and north Africa particularly badly, where rising temperatures are already causing severe problems.
The International Energy Agency's (IEA) recent global roadmap to net zero by 2050 found that global demand for oil was likely to plunge from more than 90m barrels per day to fewer than 25m by 2050, resulting in a potential 85% drop in revenues for oil-producing economies.
"In a region with one of the youngest and fastest-growing populations in the world, economic hardship and increasing unemployment risk creating broader unrest and instability," Allawi and Birol wrote.
An alternative to remaining tied to increasingly volatile oil prices would be to invest in renewables, especially solar power. "The energy sector could play a role here by making use of the region's vast potential for producing and supplying clean energy," they wrote.
Iraq is a founder member of the cartel that includes many of the world's biggest producers, including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela, Nigeria and several other African oil-producing states. The Opec+ grouping also includes Russia and some smaller producers. Most have been hostile to calls for action on climate change, while some have been dismissive of climate science and Saudi Arabia, in particular, has frequently been obstructive to UN negotiations on global climate action.
The IEA warned in May that for the world to stay within 1.5C above pre-industrial levels, the lower limit set out in the Paris agreement - to which all Opec members are signatories - then all new oil exploration must cease from this year.
Asked about the findings, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, the energy minister of Saudi Arabia, told reporters after an Opec meeting in June: "I would have to express my view that I believe it is a sequel of [the] La La Land movie ... Why should I take it seriously?"
In the past, Saudi ministers have flirted with climate action, for instance suggesting that the country could power itself with solar energy in future. But none have seriously suggested a policy to cease oil exports.
However, some oil producers have taken a more dovish stance. Oman, which is no longer an Opec member, is pursuing hydrogen as a potential low-carbon fuel for the future. UAE is also working on hydrogen, and boosting renewables, and recently inaugurated a new nuclear plant. Egypt, Morocco and Jordan are among other countries in the region with sizeable renewable energy programmes.
Birol, one of the world's leading energy economists, told the Guardian: "More than at any point in history, fundamental changes to the economic model in resource-rich countries look unavoidable. Countries in the region have been making some efforts on the energy transition. There are promising initiatives [among oil producers], but as is the case for many other countries around the world, reaching net zero emissions will require much stronger actions and much greater international collaboration."
He added: "The IEA has been warning for many years that countries that rely heavily on oil and gas revenues need to move quickly to diversify their economies away from fossil fuels to keep pace with the transition to clean energy. The impact of Covid on the oil market last year gave us a fleeting image of what the region's economies could look like in the future in a world where demand for oil and gas is structurally weaker - and where countries do not take serious measures to diversify their economies and increase their resilience."
On Wednesday oil prices fell slightly after analysts said they expected Opec to stick to its plan of gradually increasing oil production.
#145
The operator of Australia's main electricity grid plans to conduct a "detailed investigation" into the breakdown of the country's wholesale power market that triggered an unprecedented suspension during last week's energy crisis.
The Australian Energy Market Operator said on Wednesday it plans to resume trading in a two-stage process starting with the market setting prices again from 4am AEST on Thursday. After monitoring conditions for 24 hours, Aemo will decide whether the market suspension will be formally lifted.
"We will absolutely be working very closely with the regulator and Australian Energy Markets Commission on a series of actions ... to prevent this from happening again," Daniel Westerman, Aemo's chief executive, told journalists, adding that it would be looking "to make sure that that dysfunctional behaviour doesn't reoccur".

"It's not a place where the market operator wants to be in suspending the market, Westerman said. "So we're looking at obviously undertaking a detailed investigation ... to understand comprehensively the lessons learned and put in place actions so it doesn't happen again." He did not give a date when the investigation would be completed.
The federal energy minister, Chris Bowen, said he wouldn't comment on individual generators but said it was up to generators to bid into the market "as they're required to do as a matter of law".
Bowen said he supported the restart to energy trading as "a prudent and carefully managed approach to return to more normal market conditions".
An unusually widespread and prolonged cold snap at the start of winter combined with many coal-fired power units going offline to strain power supplies in five states. Temperatures have warmed in most places, easing demand, while some 4,000 megawatts of generation capacity has returned to operation since Aemo suspended the market.
Several energy ministers complained about what they saw as anti-competitive behaviour by some generators that threatened blackouts in some states. The federal government has asked the competition watchdog to join the hunt for possible gaming actions in the market.
But Westerman downplayed claims the generators had made conditions worse.
"At an operational level, we have exceptional working relationships with each generator," he said. "We have been able to reduce the amount of generation that is under direction from Aemo from about 5,000MW down to less than 1,000MW"
Aemo had operated since 1998 without needing to suspend its main electricity market. Normally it would identify a potential future supply gap, announce it in a market notice, and generators would respond.
One complication was that soaring wholesale prices - mostly caused by an unusual reliance on costly gas - had triggered price caps, starting in Queensland. At $300 a MW-hour, some generators dropped out of the market, waiting to be instructed back in by Aemo, with the prospect of compensation in the future for any price gap.
Both Westerman and Bowen spoke out in favour of further work on the development of a so-called capacity market that would pay generators and other electricity suppliers to have a certain amount of energy on standby. On Monday Aemo and other members of the Energy Security Board released a design paper on the plans for consultation.
Sign up to receive an email with the top stories from Guardian Australia every morning
Westerman said a capacity market would help enable the transition of the grid away from fossil fuels, namely gas and coal. It would ensure "that we do have sufficient dispatchable capacity on hand at any time. That sort of mechanism will prevent in future these types of things [including the market suspension] from happening."
Bowen said he and the state and energy ministers wanted the work on a capacity market "to focus primarily on new technology", such as storage.
"I want to see this done and I want to sit down right," Bowen said. "This is a massive transformation which we need to get cracking on.
"We need to make faster progress on the transformation, and we need the capacity mechanism to help us do that to provide that safety net underneath as we engage in this significant transformation to a more renewable economy, a more renewable energy system with more storage."
The AiGroup, meanwhile, welcomed the plan to re-boot the electricity market but said conditions remain far from normal.
"Today's announcement is the first step on the road out of energy hell - and in to purgatory," said Innes Willox, the employer group's CEO.
"We could be there for a very long time.
"Firstly it is quite possible that fresh unexpected events will worsen our situation," he said. "We need to stay ready for anything."
"Secondly the bill for the recent acute crisis still needs to be paid," Willox said.
"Very few energy users have been directly exposed so far, but sooner or later all of us will pay our share of the very large costs that Aemo has had to incur to keep the lights on.
"Finally, we face the grim reality that on the other side of acute chaos lies a chronic crisis of energy affordability," Willox said.
#146
Cutting green levies on energy bills, or watering down the UK's commitment to net-zero carbon emissions, would fail to help households with high energy prices and store up problems for the near future, analysts have warned.
Ed Matthew, campaigns director at the E3G thinktank, said: "Cutting green levies to tackle the energy bills crisis would be utterly self-defeating. It would only keep the UK addicted to gas for longer. The only cure is to ramp up clean energy investment and eliminate energy waste. That is the permanent solution to bring down energy bills. Any politician working against that is directly undermining the interests of their constituents and likely to be in the pocket of the fossil fuel lobby."
Green levies work to provide investment for insulation and other energy efficiency measures, and to support incentives for renewable energy. The energy company obligation, at about £1bn a year, provides insulation and other energy efficiency for poor households, and has saved about £11.7bn in total on fuel bills for lower-income households, but has been threatened by the Treasury in an effort to cut bills.
Levies on bills that support energy efficiency and renewables are falling, from £172 last year, or 15% of fuel bills, to about £153 on bills, according to recent figures from Ofgem.

Jan Rosenow, a director of the Regulatory Assistance Project, said: "Calls for cutting green levies are misplaced and a kneejerk reaction not supported by the evidence. Past levy-funded programmes have in fact reduced energy bills, as analysis has shown time and time again. Cutting levies now would leave customers paying more in the long term."
Reducing green levies has been tried before - the then prime minister David Cameron famously instructed his ministers to "cut the green crap" in 2013. That move, according to research from Carbon Brief, has meant the UK's domestic energy bills are now £2.5bn a year higher than they would have been if the green incentives had been left intact.
Yet even with the poor investment in insulation since Cameron's decision, analysis shows energy efficiency has cut the UK's energy bills by about £1,000 a year.
Renewable energy is also now much cheaper, with the costs of wind turbines and solar panels plummeting in recent years. This has helped renewable energy companies make a significant net contribution to reducing the UK's electricity prices, as the cost of gas has soared.
Wind and solar paid back £160m in the final quarter of 2021 because they receive an agreed price, called a strike price, for their energy. When the wholesale price is higher than the strike price, generators pay back the difference, and this is reflected in lower bills for consumers in subsequent quarterly periods.
The payback could reach £770m by the end of winter, or £27 per customer on the average bill.
Blaming high energy prices on renewable generation is "seriously misinformed", the chief representative of the UK's wind industry has said.
Dan McGrail, chief executive of the trade body RenewableUK, said: "The UK needs to phase out fossil fuels as fast as possible to provide long-term energy security and certainty for consumers. Figures published by Ofgem show that green levies are falling, so any attempt to blame renewables and net zero [for high energy prices] is seriously misinformed. Let's be clear: this is a crisis caused by the soaring cost of gas."
He added: "The escape route from volatile and uncontrollable gas prices couldn't be clearer. Investing in our green future secures low-cost reliable power as well as getting the UK to net zero as fast as possible."
Producing more gas in the North Sea, which some have also called for, would do little or nothing to reduce energy prices in the UK, because any additional gas would be sold on international markets to the highest bidder, analysts added.
#147
The energy crisis is tearing through Britain's high streets, with warnings on Friday of a "lost generation" of small businesses, as the impact of soaring gas and electricity prices begins to hit cafes, restaurants, shops and salons.
Across the UK, growing numbers of traders are closing their doors for good in the face of unaffordable costs driven by record inflation, with some reporting tenfold increases in utility bills.
In yet another flashing red light for the economy, which is forecast by the Bank of England to fall into recession next year, data published on Friday by the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) shows that a majority of firms - 53% - expect to stagnate, shrink or fold in the coming 12 months.
The industry body called on government to act now to shield traders. "Without help, we are facing a generation of lost businesses, jobs and potential," said Tina McKenzie, the policy and advocacy chair at the FSB.
Smaller traders, which employ 16 million people between them, do not benefit from the energy price cap, which puts a ceiling on costs for households but not for companies.
The huge jump in prices is slowly filtering through to businesses as their fixed-term contracts - some of which last for several years - expire, and many have been shocked by the increase as bills land on their doormats. A growing number are being left with no option but to stop trading.
A Labour analysis showed that there were a record 20,200 fewer businesses in the second quarter of this year - the largest loss in this period since records began. Jonathan Reynolds, the shadow business secretary, said: "Shops, cafes and pubs risk going to the wall because this government has failed to get to grips with the energy crisis."
MPs said their inboxes were full of messages from desperate small-business owners warning they would have to shut up shop. Sarah Olney, the Lib Dem Treasury spokesperson, said the country needed to see "bold proposals from the government before it's too late for Britain's high streets and entrepreneurs ... The October energy price cap rise has to be scrapped".
The Tory leadership candidates are under pressure to spell out their plans to help businesses with the costs of energy, as well as consumers. After the Guardian asked both what they would do, a spokesperson for Rishi Sunak's campaign said he had "stood by thousands of businesses during Covid" and he "crucially understands the urgent need to first get inflation under control, help people with the cost of living in the short term and then grow the economy".
Local newspapers are reporting multiple businesses disappearing from high streets, while people have shared stories on social media of much-loved neighbourhood shops, cafes and takeaways throwing in the towel, depriving communities of valuable jobs.
The residents of Coppull in Lancashire are now without a fish and chip shop for the first time in 40 years, after the owner of Oh My Cod pulled the plug following a dispute with his energy supplier, taking four jobs and a delivery driver role with it.
Its owner, Andrew Crook, was quoted electricity prices of 80p per kilowatt-hour for daytime usage for the Coppull shop - nearly eight times higher than the 11.5p/kWh he pays under a contract in his other premises.
'I'm going to have to sit it out until the prices come back down,' said Crook, the owner of Oh My Cod in Coppull, Lancashire. Photograph: Joel Goodman/The Guardian
"With what it would take to get the business going again, the energy prices just don't stack up," said Crook, who also speaks for the industry as the president of the National Federation of Fish Friers. "I'm going to have to sit it out until the prices come back down."
One of Crooks' members, the owner of the Weeping Cross Fish Bar in Stafford, has been quoted an annual energy bill of £36,000, six times higher than the £6,000 he has been paying to date.
Friday marked the last day of trading for Minshull's Country Kitchen, a cafe in Sandbach, Cheshire. After eight successful years of producing "nanny's cooking" - from quiches and stews to pies and crumbles - Paul Minshull has decided to call it a day, fearful of the rising energy bills and an impending recession.
"We felt one increase [in energy bills] and that was a pinch enough as it is. We couldn't sustain the next ones," he said. "I can see what the next few years are going to bring and it's not going to end any time soon."
Minshull, 30, is instead going to work as a restaurant manager at a local pub run by his friend, where he knows he will have a regular income.
Val Burrows, who has owned the West Street Laundry in East Grinstead, West Sussex for 10 years, is weighing up whether she can afford to keep her business going.
"It's a nightmare," she said. Her utility contract came to an end in July, and even though she had expected increased costs, she was shocked to see the price shoot up by 173%, taking the annual bill from £6,000 to £16,000.
"Businesses need more help to get us through this," she said. She called for the government to shoulder some of the burden. "I am a sole trader, so I am liable personally for rent, rate and utilities, so I have got to get through, and if at the end of the year there is no help I'll just have to shut the door."
In Aberdeen, this month saw the end of the Royal Crown takeaway, which has been run by Martin Tang's family since the 1980s. It came after he was hit by a tenfold increase in energy bills from his supplier, SSE.
Natalie Hood, who worked at the takeaway, wrote on Twitter of her sadness as they prepared to lock the doors for the final time. "We're one of the first local businesses in Aberdeen to be forced to close, we won't be the last. Something needs to be done!"
Customers of the Ainsty Farm Shop at Kirk Hammerton, near York, were informed by the owners that they were closing their doors at the end of September "because of the huge rise in electricity prices".
Stuart and Lily Beaton posted on Facebook that the impending increase in energy bills made it impossible to continue trading after their electricity contract ends at the end of next month.
The Beatons, who have run the business for 22 years and been in the same premises for 17, wrote: "As you probably all understand, running a butchery, bakery and deli uses a lot of electricity and we can now no longer carry on."
It was a £4,000 electricity bill for 10 weeks' usage - double the previous cost - that prompted the owner of a tearoom in Portstewart, Northern Ireland, to shut up shop. Richard Stewart-Brown told the Belfast Telegraph he had usually paid £2,000 for energy since opening the Molly Brown's tearoom in 2018. He posted on Facebook that "an increase in rent, food costs at an all-time high and energy costs through the roof" pushed the family to make their decision.
The Italian restaurant Santoni in Keighley, West Yorkshire, will welcome diners for the final time on Saturday, as the owner, Marco Di Rienzo, has decided to call it a day after five years. Hit by rising food prices and energy bills, Di Rienzo told Yorkshire Live he had made the difficult decision not to renew his lease.
The FSB's survey of traders found that 15% expected to downsize or close in the next 12 months, while 39% said they would not grow at all.
The outlook for some sectors is better than others: 63% of IT and communications businesses expected to grow, compared with only 34% of wholesale and retail firms, and 35% of hospitality operators.
"Any cost of living plan worth the name needs to tackle the mounting energy bills small firms face," McKenzie said. "Support is urgently required to stop driving prices for hard-up consumers ever higher and more small firms out of business."
She is calling for the energy rebate issued through the council tax system to be extended to the business rates system, along with other measures including cutting VAT on energy consumption, and direct help for small firms that don't pay business rates.
#148
China has told railway companies and local authorities to expedite vital coal supplies to utilities as the world's second largest economy grapples with extensive power cuts that have crippled industrial output in key regions.
As many as 20 provinces are believed to be experiencing the crisis to some degree, with factories temporarily shuttered or working on short hours. Shopkeepers were left to light their stores by candles, and there were reports of mobile networks failing after a three-day outage hit three north-eastern provinces.
Growing alarm among residents at the power crunch, now in its second week, comes as China's state planner - the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) - formally urged local economic planners, energy administrations and railway companies to beef up coal transportation to meet demand during the winter season. China is the world's biggest consumer of coal-powered energy.
"Each railway company should strengthen coal transportation to power houses (utilities) with inventory of less than seven days and launch the emergency supply mechanism in a timely manner," said the NDRC.
According to the South China Morning Post, quoting analysis by Sinolink Securities, stocks of coal used to generate electricity - held by the nation's six biggest power-generation groups - stood at a record low of just 11.31m tonnes as of 21 September - enough to produce power for 15 days.
The energy crunch has been driven by a series of complex overlapping factors which have combined to create a perfect storm in an economy which relies on coal for 56% of its power.
Trying to reduce its emissions to become carbon neutral by 2060, the Chinese economy has lagged behind in improving energy efficiency even as coal production has slowed because of new regulations.
On top of that, the rebound in demand for goods from Chinese factories as the world reopens after the Covid-19 pandemic - a factor facing other economies - has left coal production unable to keep up with the demand for energy from factories.
With thermal coal futures in China hitting an all-time high of $212.92 per tonne earlier on Wednesday, the rising prices have put further pressure on power utilities unable to recoup added fuel costs.


According to an analysis paper by S&P Global on Wednesday, the issues have been exacerbated by China's own attempts to intervene in the crisis which it described as a "tinderbox of issues".
"China's latest measures to cap energy consumption have been widely blamed for causing the current power crisis, but the curbs more likely ignited a tinderbox of issues accumulating for months around soaring fuel prices and coal shortages, highlighting the difficulties in implementing energy policy in the context of a huge economy with numerous moving parts."
The problems have been most acute in the three north-eastern provinces of Liaoning, Jilin, and Heilongjiang with local authorities in Shenyang, the capital of Liaoning province, warning of "the collapse of the entire grid" if power wasn't rationed.
"If there's a power cut in the winter then the heat stops too," said Fang Xuedong, 32, a delivery driver in Shenyang, about a 90-minute flight north east of Beijing.
"I have a kid and an elderly person at home, if there's no heat then that's a problem."

China, the world's top coal consumer imported a total of 197.69m tonnes of coal in the first eight months of 2021, down 10% year-on-year. But August coal imports rose by more than a third on tight domestic supplies.
Officials this week have repeatedly sought to assure people there will be power for household use and heating as winter approaches.
But since last week, power rationing has been implemented during peak hours in many parts of north-eastern China, with news reports and social media posts showing outages of traffic lights and 3G communications networks in the region.
China is considering hiking industrial power prices to ease the supply crunch, Bloomberg news reported on Wednesday, citing unidentified sources.
The NDRC said later on Wednesday the government would not stop electricity prices from floating within a reasonable range and would let them reflect market fundamentals and changes in cost.
The curbs also continue to affect heavy industry, such as metal production, and manufacturers.
An internal document from a large technology components maker in China reviewed by Reuters said more than half its daily production in Kunshan, in the eastern industrial province of Jiangsu, had been suspended since earlier this week.
Meanwhile in Foshan, in southern China's bustling province of Guangdong, the company was only allowed to produce late at night and in the early morning from mid to late-September, according to the document, which said manufacturers were "ambushed" with the new restrictions.
#149

An emergency budget to bring in winter tax cuts for millions of people and set out more detail on energy handouts is expected late next week once the country emerges from national mourning.
Though politics has been paralysed by the death of the Queen, Liz Truss is under pressure from Tory MPs to set out her plans potentially on Thursday or Friday next week, before the Commons breaks up for party conferences.
The national mourning has completely overshadowed the announcement of the £150bn energy cap, and left Whitehall trying to finalise the details of any budget at the same time as organising the state funeral.
The new prime minister is planning to travel to the UN general assembly in New York in the days following the Queen's funeral, returning in time to sit alongside her chancellor, Kwasi Kwarteng, in the Commons as he delivers his fiscal event.


The timetable for the trip suggests that No 10 has given up hope of arranging a meeting for the new prime minister with Joe Biden at the White House. The US president and other world leaders are expected to travel to the UK for the funeral, but there will be no official bilateral meetings out of respect for the period of mourning.
A minute's silence for a "shared moment of national reflection" will be held at 8pm on Sunday 18 September, the day before the Queen's funeral on Monday 19, which will be a bank holiday.
Truss's spokesperson said she was still planning to hold a fiscal event this month. The most obvious day would be Thursday 22 September, as parliamentary business has been postponed until after Wednesday 21 and Truss is likely to be in New York until then.
However, it could be on the Friday if recess were to be delayed, buttressing the Labour party conference, which begins in Liverpool the following day.
At the mini-budget, the government is expected to confirm plans to reverse the recent rise in national insurance, even though it benefits higher earners the most, handing back about £1,800 a year to top earners while the lowest earners get about £7 a year.
Truss has already said she would ditch a planned rise in corporation tax, although there have been some suggestions that this may not come next week. Her team has also spoken to business groups about reforms to business rates and cuts to value added tax to help with the energy crisis, as well as a longer-term review of these taxes.
The government is also expected to outline further details of Truss's £100bn-plus emergency bailout for households to help with energy bills, following criticism that she hadn't said how the package would be funded. She has rejected Labour's calls for a windfall tax on energy giants despite public support.
Paul Johnson, director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies thinktank, has said the government will have to come up with a better version of the energy price guarantee next year because Truss's plan was "incredibly expensive" and "totally untargeted".
Truss is under pressure from her own party to set out her plans as soon as possible. David Davis, a Conservative MP and former cabinet minister, said "broadly speaking it was the right way to go" to hold an emergency fiscal event next week.
"The truth is the public thinks about politics less than 10% of the time. But this is different because this is about their own frightening winter bills, and I mean frightening," he said. "That's why it's such a high-political-purchase issue, and you can't leave it, because the point is to take people's worries away. The economics and the politics point in the same direction."
He said theoretically it would be preferable to have independent costings for the energy package alongside the fiscal event, but forecasts from the Office for Budget Responsibility and Bank of England have been so "erroneous" that it would be better to go ahead without them. "I would rather see reform to the forecasting method rather than just get rid of them, though," he said.
Former cabinet minister John Redwood said: "After mourning a much loved Queen and the state funeral, parliament should meet. The current plan for a long conference recess means a delayed return on 17 October. We need to tackle the cost of living crisis and energy shortage before then."
Parliamentary sources suggested that the conference recess, currently due to end on Monday 17 October, could be cut by one week to two weeks in length, so that MPs could get back to work at a time when the public are worried about the soaring cost of living.
No 10 said legislation would not be needed to bring in the energy support package for households as it would involve guarantees between the government and private energy suppliers. However, some legislation might be needed to enact support for businesses.
Truss is continuing to put her top team in place, with Simon Case set to keep his job as cabinet secretary after previously having been expected to be ousted.
Case, a former private secretary to Prince William, is believed to have impressed the UK prime minister during talks over forming a government and the energy support package.
Case's revived fortunes are markedly different from those of Tom Scholar, who was removed from his post of permanent secretary of the Treasury as one of the first acts of the Truss administration, provoking outrage in Whitehall.
#150
very closely with my state and territory energy minister colleagues," Bowen said.
"But, you know, advice from the previous government - which Angus Taylor has been happy to give out, and I noticed Peter Dutton has been giving out - is about as effective as advice from the captain of the Titanic on navigation skills.
"I mean, their nine years of denial, of delay, has ill prepared our country for this crisis."
Bowen argued that the Coalition's "lack of a coherent policy framework" had slowed the uptake of renewable energy, "the cheapest form of energy storage and transmission", which would have left Australia "very well placed to deal with this crisis".
Bowen said the gas trigger was "as blunt as a basketball" and would need to be renewed before the year's end, and said he would start consultations before it had effect in 2023. "It is not the answer to this short term crisis."
"We're not ruling anything in or out in terms of the gas supply and actions that may be necessary, because we will do what is necessary."
Bowen said the government would make further announcements on Wednesday after meeting state and territory energy ministers.
#151
The UK government is set to order more drilling for oil and gas in the North Sea in defiance of its own net zero targets, while neglecting alternative measures that experts say would provide much quicker relief from high energy bills and reduce greenhouse gas emissions instead of raising them.
The energy security strategy to be unveiled on Thursday will acknowledge the need to move away from fossil fuels, the Guardian understands, but still allow for licences to explore new oil and gas fields to be expedited and more production from existing North Sea fields.
Ministers are expected to say the UK needs more oil and gas in the short term, including new sources of fossil fuel imports, to replace the small proportion of UK oil and gas that comes from Russia, and ease pressure on prices.
The government will present North Sea oil and gas as lower carbon than imported gas, according to a Whitehall source, to meet the UK's needs while ramping up renewables and nuclear power. Yet the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented a "now or never" warning on Monday, showing that new fossil fuel exploration will put the Paris agreement target of limiting global heating to 1.5C beyond reach.
The business secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, who will present the energy strategy, is strongly in favour of ramping up renewable energy over oil and gas, but under pressure from Tory rightwingers the government is set to offer a heavy emphasis on gas, with few measures on insulation or switching to heat pumps.
The strategy will also set out:
* A review of the scientific advice on the safety of fracking. The Guardian understands that Kwarteng thinks fracking in the UK is unrealistic and uneconomic, but under pressure from the right will keep the option open.
* Doubling the target on the use of hydrogen, from 5GW to 10GW, of which half will come from "blue" hydrogen created from fossil fuels, despite evidence that it emits more carbon than coal. Ministers are expected to present blue hydrogen as a necessary bridge to future "green" hydrogen from renewable energy, but campaigners say it will lock in high emissions.
* A boost to offshore wind, with the expansion of existing coastal offshore windfarms and potential new floating platforms in deeper waters, but solar energy risks being missed.
* Investment in new nuclear reactors being made easier.
* Few new measures on ramping up heat pumps and no comprehensive national programme to insulate housing on the scale experts say is feasible and would make a real difference to the cost of living.
Hopes for a major loosening of planning regulations in England that would allow more onshore wind will be dashed, owing to cabinet opposition. This is despite multiple opinion polls showing a large majority of people in favour of windfarms, including most Conservative voters and people in areas near actual and proposed turbines.
Green campaigners said new North Sea fields licensed today would produce no gas for years or decades but result in continued higher emissions long into the future. Meanwhile, the bigger opportunity - of cutting energy waste - risks being missed.
The government's independent climate adviser, the Committee on Climate Change, has expressed its strong disapproval of plans for more extraction in the North Sea, but said last month it was powerless to prevent it.
Philip Evans, oil and gas campaigner for Greenpeace UK, said: "Rushing to sign off new fossil fuel licences that'll take decades to get going would be no help in standing up to Vladimir Putin, and would actively make the climate crisis worse. The quickest and smartest solution to the energy challenge and the cost of living crisis is a huge push to tackle energy waste. If your bathtub is leaking, you should fix the leak - not just turn up the taps."
Fixing the leaks seems to be low down on the government's priority list, however. Successive attempts to insulate Britain have failed, for various reasons: poor administration, in last year's disastrous green homes grant; complex rules and low incentives for its predecessor "green deal" scheme that was abandoned in 2015; and overall a half-hearted, short-term and piecemeal approach from the government. Experts say what is needed is a concerted nationwide push to roll out insulation, double glazing and heat pumps, concentrating first on households in or at risk of energy poverty.
Emma Pinchbeck, chief executive of the trade body Energy UK, said: "The benefits of making our homes energy efficient are so overwhelming that nobody seriously disagrees with its importance, but as a country our efforts so far have got nowhere near the scale required. Now is surely the time to press ahead with something that is proven to [reduce bills] by hundreds of pounds a year permanently."
There is little sense that the government is prepared to put in the large-scale effort required. Ed Matthew, campaigns director at E3G, warned: "There is technical potential to halve gas consumption in UK homes. But to realise that extraordinary potential means unleashing a new wave of public investment to help every household to make their home super energy efficient. This requires a wartime effort to build up an army of installers to insulate our homes and fit heat pumps and to ensure it is affordable for everyone."
If the UK wants to stop importing gas by next winter, that would be theoretically possible if every home were made energy efficient, according to calculations by Jan Rosenow, director of the Regulatory Assistance Project. He said: "We import about 150 terawatt-hours of gas for home heating every year. None of this would be needed if we insulated our homes and switched to heat pumps.
"We could save more gas than we import for heating with existing technologies. What is needed is the government to step up its policies now to roll out insulation and deploy heat pumps as quickly as possible."
Behaviour change is also out of favour. Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency, has urged people to turn down their thermostats by just 1C, from about 22C on average to 21C - which is still at the upper end of comfortable. But the government is reluctant to call on people to do anything that could be regarded as a sacrifice.
Another area of concern is solar power. Offshore wind - Boris Johnson's favourite form of renewable energy - will get a big boost in the strategy, but solar could lose out despite being the cheapest form of power in the UK and the fastest to get up and running, according to Chris Hewett, chief executive of the industry body Solar Energy UK. He said the UK could reach 54GW capacity for solar power by 2030 - about 17% of the UK's electricity needs - with the right backing.
Plans for some large solar farms have run into opposition, and solar panels are still expensive for most households, despite the removal of VAT on panels. Hewett said: "To unlock the full potential, we need to see the government setting an ambitious target and speeding up investment in the modernisation of our power networks. Supportive planning guidance and a formal recognition that land within a solar farm is frequently used for agriculture or to enhance biodiversity would also enable solar to play an important role in rural economies."
The Guardian understands there are no plans for the government to seek "wriggle room" on missing or delaying the UK's carbon budgets or legally binding net zero target.
#152
The federal energy minister, Chris Bowen, says the states will be able to implement a new capacity mechanism in the national electricity market in ways appropriate for their needs as long as the arrangements are consistent with the Albanese government's 2030 emissions reduction target.
Amid soaring energy prices, blackout threats in five states and the suspension of the wholesale electricity market, the Energy Security Board (ESB) has recommended that coal and gas plants be paid to have generation capacity available as the grid transitions to low-emissions alternatives.
The ESB's proposal could have been controversial with states that have argued any capacity mechanism must favour renewable technologies but Bowen said on Monday the states would have discretion to implement the backup generation "in a way which is suitable for their 

Bowen said the generation mix was different in different parts of the country, with Queensland having younger coal generation assets. "It's appropriate that states can implement this in a way that is suitable for their needs, but it will be within that national framework and it will complement our emissions target," he said.
Bowen said settling the design of the capacity mechanism was necessary to ensure an orderly transition to firmed renewable energy, providing the national policy framework that had been missing under the Morrison government and then energy minister Angus Taylor.
He said federal and state energy ministers had agreed to develop a cooperative roadmap for the transition to net zero emissions by 2050 and he said the agreement to provide stand-by generation from coal and gas would not disrupt Labor's 2030 target, which is a 43% cut in emissions.
New South Wales and Victoria are among the states that have welcomed proposed changes to the market to pay for future idle capacity to reduce blackout risks, but analysts predict there will be heated debates over the final design and necessity of a new market.
The NSW energy minister, Matt Kean, said details of a capacity market, as outlined on Monday in a design paper by the ESB, appear to work "hand in glove" with the state's Electricity Infrastructure Roadmap.
"We have a legislated requirement to deliver capacity," Kean said. "We're very, very happy with our plans to ensure that we maintain system stability as we transition [off fossil fuels]. But obviously our preference was always for this to be driven by the national energy market."
The contentious parts of the ESB paper centre on whether consumers will end up paying to keep coal and gas-fired power plants operating, and how much they will pay. The national electricity market (NEM), which serves eastern states and South Australia, is now an "energy only" market, which does not formally reward spare capacity.
The recent turmoil in the NEM, which included soaring power prices and shortage of supplies that prompted the suspension of the wholesale market, has provided an early test for the Albanese government and Bowen. A key element of the market design would be to allow individual jurisdictions the ability to set their own paths, including avoiding support for old coal plants.
The prime minister, Anthony Albanese, said in Melbourne on Monday that a capacity market was "an insurance scheme into the energy system and that seems to me to be a bit of common sense".
"States will make their own decisions and what I will do as prime minister is to consult and work collaboratively with state and territory governments," he said.
The Victorian premier, Daniel Andrews, said the ESB paper's design was "more technology agnostic than it might otherwise have been" because of insistence by states such as his that they would not be paying coal plants to extend their operations.
"Let's be clear about this," Andrews said. "The future is about renewables, whether it is wind or solar or battery storage, particularly when it can firm up and turn into baseload synchronous energy."
Earlier, Victoria's energy minister, Lily D'Ambrosio, welcomed the ESB's design as confirming that her state's approach would be able to proceed under the plans for a post-2025 market.
"We have always been clear that a capacity market operating in Victoria would make payments to zero emissions technologies and not fossil fuels," she said.
Tennant Reed, a senior energy policy adviser to the AiGroup, said the last meeting of energy ministers during the Morrison government had agreed on the opt-out provisions for every jurisdiction. "How something would actually work in practice with a bunch of opt-outs, I don't have my head around yet and I wouldn't be surprised if nobody does," he said.
The challenge for the final design will be minimising the eventual cost to consumers of any capacity support scheme but also tailoring the plan so that it deals efficiently with long- and short-duration storage, Reed said.
"We are going to need new flexible capacity to absorb the volume of renewables or the proportion of renewables that we can have," he said.
Energy policy constrained by previous 'government at war with itself', Albanese says - video
In rare shortfall events - such as when a lack of wind occurs at the same time as reduced solar power - costly assets such as gas-fired plants may be needed. But for daily minor shortfalls of supply when the sun sets and households turn on appliances - batteries and gas-peaking generators will be able to fill the gap.
Either way, ageing and increasingly unreliable coal plants are unlikely to be the answer, Reed said. "Whether they're formally included or not, it's probably going to be mostly other assets that are the players."
The ESB hopes to have a final design decision agreed by next February. One reason for haste will be any extended debate could discourage new investment, at least for the short term, as developers wait to see what the new rules will be. That could be "a big handbrake on anyone committing to new projects in the near term", Dylan McConnell, an energy expert at Melbourne University said.
The ACT's energy minister, Shane Rattenbury, said he did not believe paying additional money to coal and gas generators at this time was "in the best interests of the community or the environment".
"If we are to invest resources in developing the mechanism, and asking energy customers to pay for it, then let's make sure we get good value for money and that the mechanism actually drives investment in the renewable technologies we need," Rattenbury said, adding that if fossil fuel plants were not excluded then zero emissions should have the highest priority and receive a higher payment.
In Queensland, a state which owns coal-fired power plants, the energy minister, Mick de Brenni, said any final proposal "must support the development of new renewable generation, pumped hydro and battery storage, and ultimately deliver lower prices and better reliability for Queenslanders".
The lead analyst for the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, Johanna Bowyer, said a capacity market would be paid for by consumers via retailers and "could put upward pressure on electricity bills at a time when bills are rising in many states".
Payments that went to fossil fuel plants could "keep high emissions capacity in the system for longer, delaying the transition to a low emissions electricity system," she said.
One industry veteran who wasn't authorised to speak publicly said paying existing generators a windfall capacity bonus was "a lose-lose proposition for customers".

"Most of the time consumers will be paying millions of dollars to generators for doing exactly what they were going to do anyway," they said. "For the others, predominantly coal generators, consumers will be paying millions of dollars to enable them to pollute longer in the middle of a climate crisis. Either way, this is a terrible result.
"An intelligent energy policy would focus on getting more new storage (and clean generation) into the market ASAP - not waiting until mid-2025 to do anything."
Ted O'Brien, the federal shadow energy minister, said "Labor doesn't know what it's doing, and households and businesses will pay the price".
"The Energy Security Board has delivered a wake-up call to the new Albanese government by rejecting energy minister Chris Bowen's request for the capacity mechanism to favour new technologies at the expense of gas and coal," he said.
"Instead of trying to create a new climate war that pits technologies against each other, Labor needs to recognise that the answer lies in a balance of technologies."
153
Millions of households are bracing for a winter catastrophe of rising energy bills that experts say will plunge people into destitution and cause an increase in avoidable deaths without urgent government support.
After Britain's energy industry regulator confirmed an 80% rise in the consumer price cap from October that will take a typical household's gas and electricity bill to £3,549 a year, there were stark warnings about its potentially devastating effects.
Charities said the rise would completely "wipe out" the incomes of poorer households, leaving millions with the threat of bills they cannot pay or the choice between heating and eating this winter.
Highlighting the damage to whole sections of the population, analysts at the Joseph Rowntree Foundation said single parents would be forced to hand over almost two-thirds of their income after housing costs to pay energy bills.
The poorest single adults would, they said, see their finances wiped out by "stratospheric" energy bills representing 120% of their income after housing costs, leaving many destitute.
Lives will be lost this winter in energy crisis, says Martin Lewis - video
Condemning inaction by ministers, the consumer champion Martin Lewis warned "lives will be lost this winter".
The latest rise announced by Ofgem highlighted once again a power vacuum at the heart of government as ministers await the conclusion of the race to replace Boris Johnson as leader of the Conservative party.
The Conservatives were in disarray over their response to the price cap on Friday, which will mean typical bills will have trebled from a year earlier.
Nadhim Zahawi, the chancellor, suggested people should think about reducing their energy use, but his likely successor, Kwasi Kwarteng, said he was opposed to giving such advice to consumers.
Liz Truss, the frontrunner to be prime minister, also refused to spell out what she would do to help households beyond saying she would "ensure people got the support they needed", even though Johnson told broadcasters that the next government would "plainly" have to increase cash "handouts".
The price cap was raised to £1,277 last October and now stands at just under £2,000 after increases this spring. The Russian invasion of Ukraine further added to a dramatic global increase in wholesale oil and gas prices.
Peter Matejic, a chief analyst at the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, said of the October increase: "In all my years as an analyst, I haven't double-checked a piece of analysis as much as this one because it is so staggering, it feels incorrect.
"It is impossible to think a care worker or a shop assistant will have to scramble to find hundreds more pounds to pay for their heating or that the entirety of someone's income for a whole year will be less than their energy bill."
Criticising Truss for failing to come up with a plan to tackle "catastrophic" energy price rises, Lewis told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "If we do not get further government intervention, on top of what was announced in May, then lives will be lost this winter."
The announcement comes as households attempt to budget for a tough winter, with inflation already above 10% driven by the soaring cost of food in shops and record petrol prices. The Bank of England has forecast the latest rise in energy bills this winter will send inflation to a peak above 13%, while some economists forecast it could climb to 18% from January.
The next cap will be introduced in January. The energy consultancy firm Cornwall Insight on Friday raised its forecasts for that announcement to £5,387, from a previous prediction of £4,650, and increased its estimate for the April cap to £6,616, up from £5,341.
Combined with forecasts for next January, the Resolution Foundation said bills were set to be about £2,277 higher than last year at £3,749 - extra money it said people cannot afford.
Torsten Bell, the chief executive of the thinktank, said: "Winter energy bills are set to average around £500 a month, while prepayment customers will need to find over £700, more than half their disposable income, to keep the heating on in January alone. These costs pose a serious threat to families' physical and financial health."
Ofgem said it would not give projections for the January measure because the market remains "too volatile" but warned prices "could get significantly worse through 2023". The new cap will affect 24m households - about 85% of the population.
That number includes about 4.5 million prepayment meter customers, who will pay on average an additional £59 a year.
Jonathan Brearley, the chief executive of Ofgem, told Channel 4 News on Friday night that the regulator had had to make "difficult trade-offs" in setting the new price cap. "[It] was designed to do one thing, and that was to make sure that unfair profits aren't charged by those companies that buy and sell energy. And, right now, those profits in that market are 0%," he said.
"What it can't do is it can't say given the cost of the energy that we can force companies to get from customers less than it costs to buy the energy that they need, because otherwise they simply can't buy the energy for those customers."
#154
Labour would create 'anti-Opec' alliance for renewable energy, says Miliband
Shadow climate change secretary says group would cooperate to cut energy prices and promote clean technology
The UK under a Labour government would form an "anti-Opec" alliance of countries dedicated to renewable energy, to bring down energy prices and promote clean technology, the shadow climate change secretary, Ed Miliband, has said.
A clean power alliance would enable countries to cooperate to source components more cheaply, boost the expansion of wind, solar and other forms of low-carbon power, and potentially to share or export electricity across connected grids.
Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Portugal, Costa Rica and Kenya are potential partners, and Miliband will be drumming up further support at the Cop27 UN climate summit, which he is visiting for several days. Labour is committed to 100% low-carbon electricity by 2030.
"This potential clean power alliance is like an anti-Opec," said Miliband, referring to the group of oil-producing countries. "I say anti-Opec because Opec is a cartel, a group of countries that works together to keep prices high. This would be a way in which countries join together to be the vanguard and say, 'We're going to deliver on clean power and it will help to cut prices, not just for us but for others'."
He said the plunge in the price of renewable energy over the last decade was "the biggest source of optimism we should all have" about the climate crisis. "It is now cheaper to save the planet than to destroy it," Miliband said in an interview with the Guardian at Cop27. "That is a message we should be shouting from the rooftops, because the implications of that message are profound."
The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, has vowed to lift the current ban on onshore windfarms, which offer the cheapest form of renewable energy. Changes to the planning system under David Cameron have in effect prevented any new onshore windfarms being built in England since 2015.
Labour would also stop granting new oil and gas licences in the North Sea. The Conservative government is planning to grant more than 100 such development and exploration licences.
Miliband stopped short of pledging to revoke any licences granted, but pointed out that companies with exploration licences need further licences to develop fields, which Labour would not grant.
He also wants three new nuclear power stations, in line with advice from the Committee on Climate Change. Generating power from biomass - burning trees - would have to be "carefully looked at", he promised, to ensure that it was environmentally sustainable, and economically viable.
Miliband, who attended Cops as secretary of state for energy and climate change from 2008 to 2010, accused the government of behaving as "climate chameleons". He pointed out that, since hosting th lauded Cop26 climate summit, where nations agreed to limit global temperature rises to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels, the government had returned - briefly - to fracking, mooted a new coalmine, granted new oil and gas licences, given tax breaks to fossil fuels, kept the ban on onshore wind, slashed aid to poor countries, failed on insulation and then snubbed Cop27, until Rishi Sunak, the prime minister, U-turned and came for a day.
Alok Sharma, the cabinet minister who presided over Cop26, had done "an important and creditable job", Miliband said. "I'm an admirer of Sharma, but he's been undermined by a government that has been saying to people, 'do as we say not as we do'. And that's a big problem."
The UK had lost standing on the international stage as a result, he added. "The problem is, the government has made promises and then broken its promises, and that isn't a good basis of trust."
Sunak's original decision to snub the Cop27 summit, and to prevent King Charles from attending, had been "extraordinary" and "embarrassing", said Miliband. "You don't need to be a climate nerd to work out that Cop26 was a big deal and we hosted Cop26, and therefore Cop27, where we were handing over the presidency, is also a big deal," he said. "And if [more than] 90 world leaders are going, you know you should probably be there."
He said Sunak "just doesn't get this agenda. He doesn't get that it's the future, that this is the future of our economy ... He's at the margins. He sent a message internationally - regrettably - and domestically, with that original decision, which is 'This isn't my thing'."
Starmer had shown that Labour would lead on the climate and green jobs, as the central plank of the party's vision of the future, he added. As well as targeting 100% renewables by 2030, the party would set up a national publicly owned energy company, GB Energy, and a wealth fund to invest in green technology and green jobs.
"It's at the centre of our agenda, because it's the future of jobs, the future of the economy, lower bills, energy security and it's the biggest issue we face as a country and a world," Miliband said.
Voices within the Tory party have raised doubts over net zero, he noted. "That means you're saying, we want to carry on with more, dirty, expensive fossil fuels for our energy system, not greener cheaper renewable power," he said. "That's not a winning position. Anti-net zero is a very defeatable position."
For "the vast majority of people", the climate was a "significant issue", he said. "What they want to know is can this be done in a way that makes economic sense for us, particularly when people are facing a cost of living crisis, and the overwhelming answer is yes," he said.
Labour's plan for clean power by 2030 would cut bills by £93bn, according to the party's analysis, through measures including energy efficiency and home insulation programmes, boosting renewable power include more onshore windfarms, and a windfall tax on the excess profits of oil and gas producers.
Miliband said pushing for clean energy would also improve people's health and quality of life. "We're a country that is racked by terrible fuel poverty, and by the killer of air pollution, and by a deep desire for big economic change," he said. "As [US president Joe] Biden has shown, being a leader on climate is an answer to all those things."
#155
India is facing a looming power crisis, as stocks of coal in power plants have fallen to unprecedentedly low levels and states are warning of power blackouts.
States across India have issued panicked warnings that coal supplies to thermal power plants, which convert heat from coal to electricity, are running perilously low.
According to data from the Central Electricity Authority of India, nearly 80% of the country's coal-fired plants were in the critical, or "supercritical" stage, meaning their stocks could run out in less than five days.
Over the weekend, Delhi's chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, wrote to the prime minister, Narendra Modi, that the capital "could face a blackout" if power stations did not receive more coal.
States including Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Bihar have been experiencing power cuts lasting up to 14 hours.
Maharashtra shut down 13 thermal power plants and urged people to use electricity sparingly, and in Punjab three power plants halted production. Scheduled power cuts introduced in Punjab, lasting up to six hours at a time, have prompted protests.
However, experts have emphasised that the power issues are not due to a shortage of domestic coal production, as some have reported.
Over the past two decades, domestic coal production in India has continued to rise exponentially, though there was a minor dip in production of less than 1% from 2019 to 2020 due to the pandemic.
Energy providers and India's state-owned coal producer, Coal India Limited, have instead been accused of failing to stockpile sufficient amounts to meet the predicted rise in demand.
"The current crisis is not manifested by shortage of coal mining capacity, but instead it is caused due to improper foresight, planning and stocking of coal by power generators and energy regulator in the country," said Sunil Dahiya, an analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air.
This year's heavy monsoon rains have also been blamed for affecting domestic coal mining due to flooding and impeding the dispatch of coal from the mines.
While this is no different from every year, more coal is usually imported to bridge the gap in production. But due to a global energy crisis, which has seen international prices hit record highs, it has been more of a financial challenge to import more coal, leading to greater shortages than usual.
On Tuesday the government asked power producers to import up to 10% of their necessary coal stocks and warned states that federal companies will curb their power supplies if they are found selling electricity on power exchanges to cash in on surging prices.
Vibhuti Garg, lead India economist for the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, said that there had been a significant growth in electricity demand recently, as India had re-emerged from the Covid lockdown, but added that this had been anticipated months ago, so should not have taken power companies by surprise.
"Various stakeholders are to be blamed for the situation," said Garg, who described the situation as "scary but likely to get better soon".
"Developers were playing safe, thinking that there was a high chance of another Covid wave hitting around this time of the year which would suppress demand. So they didn't do enough to stock coal at their end.
"So, while there was availability of coal in the last few months, developers were not maintaining enough stock at their end, leading to a crisis situation now."
Garg said that over the past year "renewable energy installation also slowed down" and that, if the Indian government had focused on increasing the capacity of renewables such as solar, wind and hydro, "the increased demand could have been met through renewable energy and this crisis could have been averted".
Seeking to allay fears around the power shortages, India's minister for power, RK Singh, said that "panic has been unnecessarily created about coal shortages".
Coal minister Pralhad Joshi blamed heavy rains and the high price of international coal for disrupting supply but insisted that in "another three to four days, things will be alright".
However, there are concerns that the shortages will be used by to justify pushing more domestic coal production, with some state governments already putting on the pressure for expedited clearance for new coalmines in protected areas.
India already has plans to boost its domestic coal production to 1bn tons by 2024.
"The situation is used by few stakeholders to push forward more opening up of coalmines citing the reason as low coal availability but that's not true at all," said Dahiya.
Any further expansion will mostly affect India's tribal communities who live in the forests which cover India's largest coal reserves, and who have already born the brunt of the environmental damage of coal mining.
If India is to meet its climate targets in the coming years, the country will also need to wean itself off coal, which currently powers almost 70% of its electricity.
"I think the government is using this as an opportunity to push for more coal mining or coal-based power generation," said Garg. "But we should avoid investing money in assets which will become stranded.
"Coal based generation is expensive and the prices will further increase. On the other hand, renewable energy generation is cheap and prices are likely to go down further."
#156
Liz Truss has set out plans to freeze energy bills at an average of £2,500 a year for two years, as part of a package of support for homes and businesses that marks one of the biggest government interventions since the financial crisis.
In her first big act as prime minister, Truss said the government would fund the scheme to reduce the unit cost of energy through increased borrowing. The initiative is forecast to involve the transfer of £150bn in taxpayer funds to energy suppliers to make up the difference between what they pay for power in the wholesale markets, and the capped consumer price. Whitehall sources said official estimates would not come until a fiscal statement from the chancellor, Kwasi Kwarteng, expected later this month.
Truss will temporarily remove green levies worth about £150 a year on average from household bills. Her scheme will cover England, Scotland and Wales, but something similar is expected to follow in Northern Ireland.
Truss also announced schemes she said would increase energy resilience, including launching a new round of about 100 new oil and gas licences and lifting the moratorium on fracking for shale gas, as well as accelerating new sources of energy supply, including nuclear, wind and solar.
The prime minister said the average household would save £1,000 in total from October because of the price reduction, added on top of the £400 discount previously announced under Boris Johnson.
In a chaotic, much-interrupted speech to the Commons on Thursday morning, Truss said: "This government is moving immediately to introduce a new energy price guarantee that will give people certainty on energy bills, it will curb inflation and boost growth.
"This will save a typical household £1,000 a year. It comes in addition to the £400 energy bills support scheme. This guarantee supersedes the Ofgem price cap and has been agreed with energy retailers."
For businesses and public sector bodies such as schools and charities, a sixth-month scheme will offer what was termed "equivalent support" to that for households, with a review in three months about how it could be better targeted.
However, Truss stopped short of asking consumers and businesses to cut back on their energy use amid fears over blackouts this winter. Some European governments have enforced energy rationing since Russia began cutting gas supplies.
She also ruled out paying for the scheme by extending a windfall tax on energy on the super-profits of energy suppliers.
Responding for Labour, Keir Starmer condemned the decision fund the entire bailout through more government borrowing rather than raising new taxes.
"The prime minister is opposed to windfall taxes," he said. "She wants to leave these vast profits on the table with one clear and obvious consequence: the bill will be picked up by working people."
He also condemned a lack of action on insulating homes, and the focus instead on oil and gas, saying "doubling down on fossil fuels is a ludicrous answer to a fossil fuel crisis".
Starmer said: "I'm afraid fracking and a dash for gas in the North Sea will not cut bills. Nor will they strengthen our energy security. But they will drive a coach and horses through our efforts to fight the looming climate crisis."
The decision to renew fracking is likely to be controversial. The practice was stopped in 2019 after concern about the extent of earth tremors caused.
A British Geological Survey report into fracking, which was commissioned by the then business secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, earlier this year, suggested "more drilling is required to establish data on shale resources and seismic impacts".
Truss also announced a review of the government's net zero strategy, under the "altered economic landscape". The review is likely to raise alarm bells from environmental campaigners, but will be chaired by Chris Skidmore, who chairs the net zero group of Conservative MPs and is a key proponent of meeting the targets.
Truss told the Commons that "decades of short-term thinking" had failed to secure energy supplies, something she said had been exposed by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"I'm acting immediately so people and businesses are supported over the next two years, with a new energy price guarantee, and tackling the root cause of issues by boosting domestic energy supply."
Under the scheme, Truss pledged that households that did not pay directly for mains gas and electricity, such as those living in park homes or on heat networks, would not be worse off and said they would receive personal support through a separate fund.
Businesses and public sector organisations were to be offered a new six-month scheme of "equivalent support", which is expected to be an intervention to subsidise the wholesale price of gas, but limited details were given about that scheme. Treasury officials expect the intervention to reduce predicted inflation by four to five points, which they said would reduce the cost of servicing debt.
A joint scheme between the Treasury and the Bank of England will offer £40bn of loans to energy suppliers to protect them from soaring wholesale costs.
In an echo of the Covid support provided for businesses, firms will be able to access capital to insure against price swings. Suppliers are concerned they face a "Lehman Brothers moment" as huge capital requirements stretch their balance sheets. The plan is intended as a "last resort" aimed at stabilising the market, the government said. Companies applying will have to prove they are in "otherwise sound financial health" and agree to certain conditions.
The government is also examining the scope of a review into reforming the regulation of energy markets as well as efforts to improve energy efficiency.
#157
Consumers will face higher energy bills than necessary next winter because of a decision by the government to limit new renewable energy generation, described as a "missed opportunity" by the renewables industry, and "outdated thinking" by a green campaign group.
Ministers have decided to authorise contracts for about 12GW of new renewable energy generation, to start construction this year, with much of it likely to come on stream before next autumn. However, the renewable energy industry estimates that about 17.4GW of projects have cleared planning permission and are "shovel-ready".
The shortfall in what the government is prepared to allow, through an auctioning system, means many of these potential projects are likely not to be built this year, and consumers will be deprived of the energy savings on bills that come from renewable energy.

Renewable energy is now cheaper than fossil fuels, which have soared in price during the Ukraine war. Onshore and offshore wind and solar power all command about £40 per megawatt hour on the market today, but gas-fired power generation costs about £140 per megawatt hour.
Under the system of "contracts for difference", renewable energy generators bid for contracts to produce power, but the government can set an overall limit on how much capacity it wants in the auctions, and can set limits on how much cash it is prepared to provide as incentives.
On Friday, the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy laid out plans for an auction, to take place on 5-6 July, allowing for 5GW of capacity to be competed for by onshore wind and solar, neither of which can take more than 3.5GW in total. The government was also expected to set a cap on offshore wind, of about 7GW of new capacity. Instead it set no cap but limited the incentive "pot" to £200m. Industry sources said that pot would amount to a de facto cap of about 7GW on new offshore wind capacity.
At about 12GW, this is the biggest auction so far, but still falls far below what the industry says is possible: according to industry estimates, there are about 8.5GW of offshore windfarms that could come on stream, along with about 3.9GW of onshore wind and about 5GW of solar farms.
Many groups, including unions, the CBI employers' organisation, the National Farmers' Union, and green and consumer groups, had called for the government to increase the amount of renewable energy generation. Research shows that renewable energy brings down energy bills for consumers: if the 12GW the government is planning had been available last winter, energy bills would have been about £100 lower for the average household.
Labour said energy billpayers would suffer. Ed Miliband, the shadow climate change and net zero secretary, said: "Once again, families are paying higher energy bills as a direct result of Conservative failure. The government is intentionally blocking access to the quickest, cheapest, cleanest forms of new power, stopping enough onshore wind and solar energy to power 3m homes. These are shovel-ready projects, with planning permission, that could be generating energy for our country at a quarter of the price of gas by the end of next year."
He added: "This terrible decision, bowing to the concerns of a few Tory backbenchers, damages investment, forfeits good jobs across the country, keeps bills high, and continues our exposure to Putin's gas."
Doug Parr, a policy director for Greenpeace UK, said: "We have a global climate emergency which requires low carbon power, we have a cost of living crisis which requires cheap power, and we have a war in Ukraine that requires domestic power. By an amazing stroke of luck, renewables are low-carbon, cheap, domestic and can be deployed faster than the alternatives. Capacity limits on cheap renewables are outdated thinking."
The new contracts for difference auction follows a pattern of slowing growth in renewable energy in the UK, according to analysis conducted by the Liberal Democrats on government data.
Total renewable capacity grew by 3.4% to 49.44GW in the year to December 2021, compared with an average annual rise of about 18% over the previous 11 years.
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST
Wera Hobhouse, the climate and energy spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats, said: "Under the Conservatives, the UK renewables industry has been neglected again and again. The country has been left overly reliant on gas, worsening the cost of living crisis which is hitting households hard. These projects would reduce energy bills but it needs the right political leadership from the Conservatives."
She added: "There is no question that the Conservative government must drastically increase renewable energy capacity and this starts with a much more ambitious round of auctions for clean energy projects. Recently [in the local elections], British people sent a message that the Conservatives have let them down. The lack of ambition in renewables is just another example that will leave millions vulnerable to ever-soaring energy bills."
A government spokesperson said: "The Covid pandemic and its aftermath understandably slowed infrastructure deployment across the country. That said, nearly 40% of our electricity now comes from renewable sources, and since 2010 we have delivered a 500% increase in the amount of renewable energy capacity connected to the grid. The contracts for difference scheme has been hugely successful in boosting UK energy supply and reducing our dependence on volatile fossil fuels, with competitive auctions reducing the price of offshore wind by around 65% since 2015."
#158

The opposition leader, Peter Dutton, has sought to deflect blame for the national energy crisis, saying there is "fault all round", while blaming states for locking up gas reserves.
In a wide-ranging interview on the ABC on Sunday, the former defence minister also rejected suggestions he had relied on classified information to claim Australia could access two new Virginia-class submarines from the US by 2030, and held back support for an Indigenous voice to parliament.
On Saturday, the New South Wales premier, Dominic Perrottet, said an "ideological war" over climate change and national energy policy was largely to blame for the lack of private sector investment in the market, pointing to the divisions within the Coalition on energy policy during the past decade.
But Dutton, a leading conservative who opposed the national energy guarantee that contributed to Malcolm Turnbull's loss of the prime ministership, rejected the claim, saying the Coalition had made "huge investments" in renewables.
"There is fault all round here," the Liberal leader told the ABC's Insiders program.
"Over a long period of time people have been taking different positions, including state governments.
"We've got a huge gas supply in the north and west of this country, in the Labor state in WA. There is the ability for certainty to be put into the energy market.
"We have constraints in terms of the gas pipeline bringing gas from north to south, and we've got moratoriums in Victoria."
Dutton said that while he supported more renewables being brought into the electricity market, he also maintained that coal and gas would continue to be part of the energy mix.
"I would love to tell you that there is a battery that can replace a coalmine tomorrow or that we can bring on hydro that can support the rest of the country, but the technology is just not there," he said.
Despite the loss of Liberal heartland seats to climate independents across the country, Dutton also said the Liberal and National parties would not be supporting Labor legislation that enshrined the 43% cut in emissions by 2030, and suggested he would likely take a smaller target to the next election.
"We are not supporting [the] legislation and we have been clear about that," he said.
"Our view is that we will end up ... with something like 35%. We had the target of 26-28%. In terms of our own target, we will announce that before the next election."
Dutton also suggested that there was a "sense of panic" on display from the new energy minister, Chris Bowen, while defending the Coalition's management of the national energy market when it was in government.
"The sense of panic from Chris Bowen that is out there at the moment wasn't there when Coalition was in government," Dutton said. "I think he is a bunny in the headlights."
Dutton was also pressed by host David Speers about an article published in the Australian that suggested he had been devising a plan as defence minister to purchase submarines from the US to fill a looming capability gap.
The comments, derided by the defence minister, Richard Marles, as "rank politics", were greeted with scepticism, but also suggestions that Dutton may have leaked classified information if the plan had been canvassed by the government's nuclear submarine taskforce, which was being led by V Adm Jonathan Mead.
Dutton insisted that the remarks had been informed by "his judgment" after he had visited the production line in Connecticut.
"There is nothing top secret in a professional judgment as the former defence minister that I have made. It's not based on classified information or secrets but the judgment that I made," he said.
"They [the Americans] are very keen to see the reality in the Indo-Pacific addressed and so I think that they would pull out every stop to support Australia acquiring the capability as quickly as possible, and that was my judgement."
On the Indigenous voice to parliament that Labor has promised to deliver as a priority, Dutton said the opposition would wait to see the detail of the proposal before declaring its hand. 

"We want to see that detail and there are lots of questions that will come from that. I don't think the public has any understanding yet of what the government is proposing," the Liberal leader said.
He said that he wanted to see "practical outcomes" for Indigenous Australians, calling on the prime minister, Anthony Albanese, to make it a priority.
"I really want to see the closing of the gap. I really want to see a massive reduction in the violence against women and children, particularly the sexual violence against children in Aboriginal communities."
Labor has pledged to implement the Uluru statement from the heart in full, which also includes the establishment of a truth-telling Makarrata commission as a first step towards a treaty with Indigenous Australians, along with constitutional recognition of the voice to parliament.
In 2019, Dutton criticised the voice to parliament as a third chamber of parliament, and in 2008 opposed the national apology to members of the Stolen Generations. After becoming leader last month, Dutton said boycotting the apology had been a "mistake".
The minister for Indigenous Australians, Linda Burney, has urged Dutton to be on the "right side of history" in supporting the voice.
On Sunday, Dutton said it was too early to say if he would support the proposal.
"I just don't know what the government's proposing at the moment other than the headline," he said.
"I'm happy to support anything that supports reconciliation that does it in a sensible way."
#159
The government was scrambling on Saturday night to reassure Britons that rising gas prices would not plunge the country into an energy crisis, as ministers held a series of emergency meetings with energy companies and regulators to establish whether the nation could keep the lights and central heating on this winter.
A senior industry insider likened the meetings held between the business secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, and energy industry leaders to the early crisis talks held following the outbreak of Covid-19.
Gas prices surged by more than 70% in August alone, and the shock has sent energy companies and heavy industrial firms out of business. Households could see energy bills jump by as much as £400 in a year, according to some estimates. A lack of carbon dioxide, a byproduct of heavy industry, means food shortages will become more acute because meat producers use it to slaughter animals humanely.
After eight hours of one-on-one discussions, Kwarteng announced further talks on Sunday with regulator Ofgem, and on Monday will meet industry leaders again to thrash out ways to keep the industry afloat and prevent millions falling into fuel poverty. Surging prices of natural gas have pushed seven energy suppliers out of business this year and the BBC reported on Saturday night that four more may go next week.
Kwarteng is also working with other ministers to avert other knock-on effects of the gas crisis. The food and drink industry is already grappling with a shortage of carbon dioxide after gas price increases forced two fertiliser plants to shut down. The owner of Bernard Matthews has said the shortage of carbon dioxide means "Christmas will be cancelled".
In a statement on Saturday, the business secretary went to some lengths to try to reassure the public, saying there was no cause for immediate concern. "I was reassured that security of supply was not a cause for immediate concern within the industry," he said.
"The UK benefits from having a diverse range of gas supply sources, with sufficient capacity to more than meet demand. The UK's gas system continues to operate reliably and we do not expect supply emergencies this winter."
He said protecting customers and energy security were both "an absolute priority", and Ofgem would ensure that customers of firms that went bust would continue to receive gas and electricity.
"We are confident supply can be maintained," he added. "Our largest single source of gas is from domestic production, and the vast majority of imports come from reliable suppliers such as Norway. We are not dependent on Russian oil and gas."
Ministers from across government would be drawn in to "manage the wider implications of the global gas price increase", he said.
A senior industry insider said the business secretary aimed to hold up to 20 one-on-one meetings with energy industry leaders this weekend as an "intelligence-gathering exercise" to "bottom out how bad things might be".
The government is understood to be open to considering short-term measures to help companies and households weather the looming winter energy crisis, but could also consider a longer-term shake-up to accelerate the UK's shift away from fossil fuels and address the "fragility in the energy retail market".
"There's nothing about this situation that wouldn't be better if we were less reliant on gas," the source said.
Gas prices have surged globally following a long winter in which gas stores across Europe and Asia were heavily depleted. Storage levels remain well below average, and gas imports into Europe from Norway, Russia and the Middle East have slowed.
In the UK, the gas price increase has led to record electricity market prices too, because the UK relies on gas-fired power plants to generate almost half its electricity. Low wind speeds have reduced the UK's renewable energy generation, and a string of problems at UK power plants and a major cable connecting the UK to France have forced market prices higher. The rocketing price of gas has also caused a Europe-wide slowdown for some chemical factories that produce fertiliser, a byproduct of which is carbon dioxide, used in fizzy drinks and beer, as well as in the meat industry to stun animals before slaughter.
Ed Miliband, Labour's shadow business secretary, said the price increases were part of a cost-of-living crisis. Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PA
Fertiliser plants in Teesside and Cheshire have already shut. Ranjit Singh Boparan, the owner of Bernard Matthews and 2 Sisters Food Group, said the supply of turkeys at Christmas could not be guaranteed. "The CO2 issue is a massive body blow and puts us at breaking point, it really does - that's poultry, beef, pork, as well as the wider food industry."
Dermot Nolan, a former chief executive of Ofgem, said the increases were the result of depleted stocks following a cold winter last year, reduced supply from Russia and increased demand for liquefied natural gas from the far east.
He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "It is not obvious to me what can be done in the very short run. Britain does have secure, relatively diverse sources of gas, so I think the lights will stay on.
"But I am afraid it is likely in my view that high gas and high electricity prices will be sustained for the next three to four months." Ofgem has already increased the price cap from an average of £1,138 per year to £1,277 from next month for someone on a standard variable tariff. The next official review is in April, when it may rise above £1,500, according to The Energy Shop price comparison website.
Ed Miliband, Labour's shadow business secretary, said the price increases were part of a cost-of-living crisis that underlined the need to cancel the government's planned £20 a week cut to universal credit.
"It is a fundamental failure of long-term government planning over the last decade that we are so exposed and vulnerable as a country, and it is businesses and consumers that are paying the price," he said.
"If we had been investing at sufficient scale in diverse, secure, zero carbon energy supplies and making energy efficiency a much bigger priority, we would not be in such a precarious position."
Darren Jones, chair of the Commons business select committee, said: "We've known for some time that the UK is over reliant on imported gas. Customers on low incomes need targeted help this autumn/winter. And ministers need to get a move on building a more resilient and sustainable UK energy system."
With about 80% of the UK's 27.8 million households connected to gas mains supply, the UK relies heavily on natural gas.
Nearly half comes from North Sea fields, with much of the rest supplied via pipelines from Norway. But the North Sea output will halve by 2027, according to OGUK's Will Webster.

"Letting production fall faster than we can reduce demand risks leaving us increasingly dependent on other countries, and at the mercy of global events over which we have no control," he said.
Countries such as Germany rely much more on gas from Russia and the nearly-completed Nord Stream 2 pipeline under the Baltic Sea has been a source of concern for Nato countries worried that it will give Vladimir Putin political leverage.
Gazprom, Russia's state owned energy company, was accused by 42 members of the European parliament from across the political spectrum of "deliberate market manipulation" last week, as they called for the European commission to investigate.
Energy UK, which represents energy suppliers, said firms would give people extra support this winter.
Ofgem said the record prices were "undoubtedly putting pressure on companies" and it had processes in place to help customers of companies that failed.
#160

American private equity tycoons are profiteering from the global climate crisis by investing in fossil fuels that are driving greenhouse gas emissions, a new investigation reveals.
Oil and gas pipelines, coal plants and offshore drilling sites linked to Indigenous land violations, toxic leaks and deadly air pollution are among the dirty energy projects financed by some of the country's largest private equity firms, according to an investigation by the corporate accountability non-profits LittleSis and the Private Equity Stakeholder Project (Pesp).
Private equity refers to an opaque form of financing away from public markets in which funds and investors buy and restructure companies including startups, troubled businesses and real estate.
Globally, the industry manages more than $7tn for wealthy individuals and institutional investors such as mutuals, hedge funds, endowments and pensions, investing in every sector from retail chains and healthcare to prisons and weapons.
Some of that money finances fossil-fuel projects that release greenhouse gases that cause global heating. Higher atmospheric and ocean temperatures are directly linked to the rise in catastrophic weather events like drought, extreme temperatures and hurricanes.
Yet unlike banks and other publicly listed companies, private equity firms are exempt from most financial disclosure rules, making it extremely difficult to track their assets.
It means people like firefighters and teachers whose pension funds are invested in private equity funds have little way of knowing if their retirement nest egg is financing coal plants, oil wells or solar farms.
The Private Equity's Dirty Dozen report, shared exclusively with the Guardian, provides a snapshot of the industry's involvement in some of the country's most controversial fossil fuel investments, as well as the deep political and cultural ties of its wealthy executives. The investigation found:
* The Carlyle Group, one of the world's largest private equity firms, owns dozens of oil and gas companies including a stake in NGP Energy Capital, which boasts its own major portfolio mostly focused on fracking and drilling in states like Texas, Wyoming and Colorado. Carlyle, which recently announced a target of net zero emissions by 2050, also partners with Hilcorp Energy - a major methane emitter with a track record of offshore spills in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico - on at least $4bn in equity and debt deals. (Methane is more than 25 times as potent as carbon dioxide at trapping heat in the atmosphere, and accounts for about a quarter of today's global heating.)
* Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co (KKR) has a controlling stake in the Coastal Gaslink pipeline in Canada, a 400-mile multibillion-dollar infrastructure project through unceded Indigenous territories that will transport fracked gas to a Pacific coast port for export to Asia. Police have deployed to evict protests and blockades organised by the hereditary chiefs of the Wet'suwet'en Nation. Co-founder Henry Kravis is a major Republican donor, donating $1m to Trump's 2017 inauguration fund.
* Daniel Revers is the managing partner & founder of ArcLight Capital Partners, a top energy-focused private equity firm, who accompanied Trump to China in 2017 - reportedly to help recruit investors for an environmentally disastrous refinery in the US Virgin Islands. Last year the EPA enacted emergency powers to shut down the Limetree Bay oil refinery after multiple toxic leaks led to school closures and adverse health impacts on majority black communities. This was followed by a DoJ complaint alleging the refinery posed an imminent threat to public health and the environment, before Limetree filed for bankruptcy.
* Richard Kayne is a major Republican donor and co-founder of Kayne Anderson Capital Advisors, the largest investor in energy pipelines in America. Kayne held a stake in the fifth largest oil pipeline developer in the world, the Plains All American Pipeline, when it was fined $60m for spilling 140,000 gallons of crude oil into the Pacific and the California coast in 2015 - the state's worst oil leak in 25 years. (The company sold its stock in 2021 but still has a seat on the board.)
The findings have renewed calls for greater transparency in the booming private equity industry, so that communities bearing the brunt of toxic emissions and extreme weather can track the money behind the misery.
"By plowing money into dirty coal plants, offshore drilling and deforestation, private equity threatens to undermine our hard work to tackle the climate crisis and advance environmental justice," said Elizabeth Warren, former presidential candidate and member of the Senate committee on banking. "It's just another page from private equity's standard playbook: boost short-term profits at the expense of the long-term wellbeing of communities."
Alyssa Giachino, Pesp's climate director and co-author of the report, said: "While communities have shouldered the harms from fossil fuel investments, private equity firms have built vast wealth. Many firms have adopted rhetoric around sustainability, but have yet to provide transparency on their holdings and impacts."
A KKR spokesperson said the company "wholeheartedly disagreed" with the report's assertions. "Not only do we believe in - and our actions support - the need for a sustainable energy transition, we also believe in the value and importance of transparency, as evidenced by an extensive library of public disclosures including our Climate Action Report and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Report [among others]."
Private equity firms have spawned an elite group of super-rich power brokers with deep ties in politics, the arts, sports and education sectors.
In recent years, banks have come under growing criticism for bankrolling fossil fuel projects, while secrecy surrounding private equity has shielded the industry from the same scrutiny.
Yet in 2020, state-owned institutions like public pension and sovereign wealth funds invested 22% of the trillions in their portfolios in private equity where - unlike the stock markets - only the wealthy and institutional investors have direct access to this capital.
The nature of these investments, let alone their impacts, are notoriously tough to track, though according to financial data analysts PitchBook, there has been at least $1.1tn in private equity energy deals globally since 2010.
It's no secret that the oil and gas industry spends big on politics, contributing more than $700m through individual, Pac and outside donations since 2000, according to Open Secrets. More than 80% of the campaign contributions have benefited Republican coffers.
But the financial sector is far and away the largest source of campaign contributions to federal candidates and parties.
Stephen Schwarzman, chief executive and founder of Blackstone Group and the world's 34th richest man according to Forbes, is a major Republican donor who has personally contributed to Donald Trump, Mitch McConnell and former Georgia senator Kelly Loeffler who supported overturning the 2020 presidential result. (Schwarzman recognised Biden's victory and condemned the January 6 insurrection.)
Blackstone, the world's biggest private equity firm which manages $731bn in assets, co-owns (with ArcLight) one of America's dirtiest coal plants, the General James Gavin power station in Ohio. Blackstone also has a significant stake in the owner of the Dakota Access pipeline - the oil infrastructure project which triggered the Standing Rock protest camp where Indigenous water protectors were brutalised by law enforcement.
A spokesperson said: "Virtually none of the capital Blackstone invested in the last three years was in fossil fuel exploration and production. We have simultaneously invested over $15bn in projects that we believe are consistent with the energy transition." The company does not make corporate donations.
Democratic candidates have also benefited from fossil fuel investors. Adebayo Ogunlesi, founder and managing partner of Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP), has donated to Barack Obama and Joe Manchin, the coal-friendly West Virginia senator currently blocking Biden's climate spending bill, Build Back Better.
Ogunlesi oversees $79bn in assets, with over half of the company's portfolio in energy investments, according to market data. GIP is part of a consortium which in 2020 bought a 49% stake in the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company's infrastructure, in a deal worth $10bn that gives them lease rights to gas pipelines for the next 20 years.
Ogunlesi, who is the senior director of Goldman Sachs and has sat on various boards at Harvard University, served alongside Blackstone's Schwarzman on Trump's business advisory council, which was abandoned after the former president described white supremacist protesters in Charlottesville as "very fine people".
The report details the symbiotic relationships between ultra-rich private equity executives and the rest of America's elite such as Carlyle's co-founder David Rubenstein, whose net worth is estimated at $4.6bn and sits on the board of several influential think tanks and arts.
"It's a big problem that ultra-wealthy private equity executives are able to use their fortunes to enmesh themselves on the boards of the most prestigious universities, cultural institutions and thinktanks," said Derek Seidman, researcher with LittleSis and report co-author. "This helps them burnish their public reputations in ways that obfuscate the fact that they are, in reality, some of the world's biggest oil barons."
#161
A high-profile UK fracking company has been taken over by a green energy group and now has an anti-fracking campaigner as a director.
Yorkshire-based Third Energy was at the forefront of efforts to produce fossil gas and intended to use high-pressure fluids to fracture shale rocks under the county. But it was hampered by permit delays and fierce local opposition.
Now the company has been taken over by Wolfland Group, a renewable energy company. It has halted all fossil fuel production from its conventional gas wells and has no plans for further exploration or development. Instead it will focus on green energy, including solar farms, and the use of existing wells for geothermal energy and the burial of captured carbon dioxide emissions.
Steve Mason was a leading figure in the anti-fracking campaign in Yorkshire and is now a director of Wolfland Group. "The current energy crisis has shown that we must be energy independent as a nation and that fossil fuels need to be urgently replaced by clean renewable energy supplies, which will lead to cheaper energy and help us tackle climate change," he said.
"We believe we're now a real-life example of walking the talk and turning stranded fossil fuel assets into green energy solutions."
Mike O'Shea, chief executive of Wolfland Group, said: "Taking a dirty fossil fuel fracking company and flipping it into a green energy beacon [is] an amazing opportunity."
Russell Hoare, managing director at Third Energy, said: "Our [previous] shareholder was actively pursuing oil and gas development in the US and Ukraine. It was difficult to find green investment with the balance still swinging towards fossil fuels. Now we can say we have absolutely no interest in fossil fuels and we can move forward to a sustainable future."
Nevertheless, the company will not be changing its name. "Third Energy perfectly describes the energy transition that needs to take place in the UK," said Mason. "The first energy was fossil fuels, the second energy was nuclear and now the third energy is renewables. It's a perfect brand for renewable energy."
Gas prices are currently very high and rising energy bills have sparked fears over the rising cost of living for many families. A few commentators have called for increased gas production in the UK, but experts say this would do nothing to reduce dependence on the fuel or its cost, the price of which is set by international markets.
Instead, campaigners are calling on Boris Johnson to provide home insulation for people on low incomes and a windfall tax on fossil fuel companies to fund emergency support for vulnerable people.
#162
Climate and environment groups have criticised comments by the new resources minister, Madeleine King, in support of new gas development, saying it is inconsistent with what climate science says is required to limit global heating.
In an interview with the Sydney Morning Herald, King said new gas fields such as Santos' Narrabri development in northern New South Wales would help avoid a future power crisis.
"It avoids a crisis, is what it does, because it means more gas closer to your systems," King said of the Narrabri project.
Santos' project was approved by the NSW Independent Planning Commission and the federal government in 2020. It would not produce gas before 2025.
It has faced strong opposition from community and environment groups and traditional owners who have raised concerns about its effects on the climate, water and the Pilliga forest.
Tim Buckley, the director of Climate Energy Finance, said the energy crisis on the east coast would not be solved by more greenfield fossil fuel developments.
The International Energy Agency and the United Nations have said new fossil fuel projects are incompatible with limiting warming to 1.5C.
"Any discussion about gas as a transition fuel is ignoring the climate science, ignoring methane venting and fugitive emissions, and it's ignoring the whole supply chain analysis and the reality that methane emissions are skyrocketing way in excess of the corporate data," Buckley said.
"Methane is now one-quarter of global CO2 equivalent emissions and we have a climate emergency."
Buckley said new gas developments would take years to come online and would not address skyrocketing prices.
"Domestic east coast gas production has tripled in the last decade, and so it is totally fact-free spin to say yet more production will somehow lower the record-high gas prices," he said. "Excessive exports from the east coast of Australia is the problem."
Andrew Stock is a retired energy executive and a retired foundation director of the Clean Energy Finance Corporation.
He is now a councillor for the Climate Council and said the work of both the IEA and the UN made clear there was "no room in the climate balance of the planet for new gas developments".
Stock said the states with the lowest energy prices in the national market were those that had diversified strongly into renewables and storage, such as South Australia.
"What government should be doing is working very hard to put in place a transition plan to renewables and storage, and away from fossil fuels, because that makes Australia independent to what's going on in the rest of the world," he said.
National energy ministers have agreed to the creation of a transition plan to decarbonise the economy, the acceleration of work by the Energy Security Board on building extra capacity for electricity supply, and an investigation by regulators of the purchase and storage of gas to reduce the risks of shortages.
King told the Sydney Morning Herald she wanted to decarbonise the economy but had to "accept some of the realities of our current energy mix".
Sign up to receive an email with the top stories from Guardian Australia every morning
Chris Gambian, the chief executive of the Nature Conservation Council of NSW, said King's support for the Narrabri development would do nothing to solve the immediate energy shortfall and "it ignores the obvious need for domestic gas reservation".
"It also disregards the significant environmental damage that the local community at Narrabri has been seriously concerned about for many years."
Gomeroi traditional owners voted overwhelmingly against entering into an agreement with Santos for its Narrabri gas project. The matter is the subject of proceedings in the national native title tribunal.
Gomeroi traditional owner Karra Kinchella said there had been resistance to the Santos project for more than a decade and "that's not going to change just because Ms King wants it to".
"What gets me the most is that if we had started the transition to renewable energy ten years ago, the Pilliga wouldn't be at risk now," she said.
King told Guardian Australia in a statement: "The government is committed to achieving net zero emissions by 2050 and gas will remain an important energy source during the energy transition. Gas is able to ensure reliability and security of energy supply as coal generation comes to an end."
The minister said gas developments had "the potential to supply the increased demand for gas generation during the energy transition" as would greater investment in renewables and energy storage.
"If developments like Narrabri stack up environmentally and commercially, and receive necessary approvals, then they should go ahead," King said. "That includes environmental approvals and native title processes."
#163
The national electricity market reached a new milestone on Sunday, with solar power outstripping energy generation from coal for the first time since the market was set up two decades ago.
The crossover point lasted for only a few minutes, as low demand and sunny skies on Sunday meant the contribution from coal dropped to a record low of 9,315MW just after noon, while solar provided the dominant share with 9,427MW.
Dylan McConnell, a research fellow at the University of Melbourne's climate and energy college, said that for a brief moment renewable energy represented 57% of national electricity generation.
"This is what I unofficially call 'record season'," McConnell said. "It's actually still pretty early in the season [to get these numbers] but in spring or the shoulder seasons you have the combination of low demand, because there's no heating or cooling, and then nice weather on the weekend.



"Those factors combine, and you get these giant shares of renewable energy that generally push out coal."
While McConnell said it was only "fleeting" and that "Australia was a long way from peak renewable energy", energy prices also went negative on Sunday from 8.30am through to 5pm.
The Green Recovery: how Australia can clean up its act on energy - video
Though the exact price differed by jurisdiction, it means producers were getting paid to consume, or energy producers were paying to keep running.
Unlike more nimble solar and wind producers, coal generators are particularly hurt when prices turn negative. The costs associated with shutting down and restarting coal generators are prohibitive, meaning operators will choose to keep running even at a loss.

According to datalogger NEMlog, South Australia had 100% of its energy needs met by wind and solar while Victoria would have met 102% of state demand had operators not been forced to switch off during the period of negative prices.
Energy analyst Simon Holmes à Court said the overall proportion of renewable energy - solar, wind and hydro - would have been higher in the energy mix but wind producers chose to shut down to avoid the price hit.
"There was a significant amount of curtailment," he said. "What it shows is that there's already more renewables that could have gone into the grid if the coal plants were more flexible and transmission was upgraded."
The development coincides with calls from the Clean Energy Investor Group (CEIG) - an 18-member body that advocates for investors in large-scale renewable energy projects - for financial reforms to "align Australia with international markets" and "unlock" new investment.
Modelling conducted for the group by Rennie Partners found that Australia needs 51GW of renewable energy generation by 2042 if it is to meet its commitments under the Paris Climate Change agreement but that only 3GW of new wind and solar projects have been committed, leaving a 48GW shortfall.
Simon Corbell, the chief executive of CEIG, said governments and regulators should bring Australia's investment guidelines into line with global markets.
"Clean energy investors currently face significant risks in the NEM, which is holding back the capital needed,'' Corbell said.
"To unlock an investment pipeline worth $70bn we need effective market reforms and policy certainty, which could also save up to $7bn in capital costs, or up to 10% of the cost of Australia's clean energy transition."
#164
A massive expansion of wind farms across the UK is now needed for national security reasons, the business secretary has declared, as, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the government considers sweeping changes to planning laws to improve Britain's energy independence.
Boris Johnson is planning to unveil a radical new "energy strategy" within a fortnight to ensure the UK can meet its domestic needs from a mix of renewables and nuclear. The war in Ukraine has brought further huge rises in global fossil fuel prices and exposed countries' dependence on overseas supplies.
Remarkably, the need for more on- and offshore windfarms - traditionally a highly controversial subject in the Conservative party - is now being talked about within government as a matter of security, rather than a way of fighting climate change.
Renewables such as wind and solar power are expected to be part of the new government strategy to free Britain from dependence on imported oil and gas and spare households and businesses from the effects of wild fluctuations on global energy markets.
Kwasi Kwarteng, the business, energy and industrial strategy secretary, said last week on Twitter: "This is no longer about tackling climate change or reaching net-zero targets. Ensuring the UK's clean energy independence is a matter of national security. Putin can set the price of gas, but he can't directly control the price of renewables and nuclear we generate in the UK."
Official figures show that meeting net-zero targets would lead to a drop in gas use of 65% by 2035 in the UK, and almost 100% by 2050.
Wind turbines on Eaglesham Moor, southwest of Glasgow. Their construction has been highly controversial in the Conservative party. Photograph: Andy Buchanan/AFP/Getty Images
While some Tory MPs also want the moratorium on fracking for shale gas to be lifted to help reduce dependence on imports, cabinet sources said there was no realistic prospect of doing so in the short term, until the process had been proved to be demonstrably safe. Instead a majority of cabinet ministers back a big push for more renewables and an expansion of nuclear.
Johnson said last week that all oil imports from Russia would be phased out by the end of this year. In the UK, 4% of gas and 8% of oil currently comes from Russia. The EU sources about 40% of its gas from Russia and 27% of its oil.
Sources said changes to planning rules that would make it easier to build windfarms are likely to be announced as part of the new energy strategy. Construction has tailed off since David Cameron tightened regulations when he was prime minister: at the moment local residents can easily block such plans. It is also understood that the government may ease the way for more offshore wind farms, in the teeth of opposition from the fishing industry.
Other countries are also using security issues raised by the Ukraine crisis to push urgently for more green and clean energy. Germany's government announced last week an additional €30bn for its clean energy transition in response to the invasion. Christian Lindner, the finance minister, described renewables as "freedom energies" that could allow Germany a greater degree of energy independence and transform "the economy, society and the state".
Labour has called for an urgent "national sprint" to build a clean, green, secure energy future including more renewables. Ed Miliband, shadow secretary for climate change and net zero, said last week: "Energy security is national security. Homegrown, clean power is the cheaper, more secure route to energy security and sovereignty."
In 2020 renewables generated 43 per cent of Britain's electricity while gas, oil and coal contributed about 40 per cent. The remaining capacity was filled by nuclear.
In October last year Johnson announced that all of Britain's electricity will come from clean energy sources by 2035. The plan now is to bring that date forward.
While many Conservative MPs and party members have opposed windfarms, there are signs of growing support. Kevin Hollinrake, Tory MP for Thirsk and Malton, said: "England's planning system has blocked nearly all new onshore wind developments in the past five years, despite this being the cheapest source of new electricity generation. Reforming these rules, while ensuring communities still get a meaningful say, will spur investment in homegrown clean energy and accelerate our transition away from expensive fossil fuels."
Sam Hall, director of the Conservative Environment Network, an independent forum for Tories who back decarbonisation, commented: "Streamlining planning approvals and regulations would unleash more wind and solar projects to provide cheap, clean, homegrown power. Now is the time to accelerate the drive towards net zero and away from volatile fossil fuels."
#165
China is targeting a clean energy goal of reducing fossil fuel use to below 20% by 2060, according to an official plan published by state media.
The cabinet document, released on Sunday, follows a pledge by President Xi Jinping to wean the world's biggest polluter off coal, with a target of peaking carbon emissions by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality 30 years later.
But the country has been criticised for pushing ahead with opening dozens of new coal-fired power plants. Authorities have also been wanting to ramp up production, with coal prices surging and supplies running low, both factors behind recent power outages.
The guidelines come as countries gear up for a new round of climate talks in Glasgow starting on 31 October, from which Xi will be conspicuously absent.
China faces a struggle to wean itself off coal, which fuels nearly 60% of its energy-hungry economy.



But on Sunday guidelines published by China's official Xinhua news agency laid out a host of targets in its path towards carbon neutrality.
Among them was the proportion of non-fossil fuel consumption reaching about 25% of total energy use by 2030 - when the nation targets peak emissions.
By then, carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP would have dropped by more than 65% from 2005 levels, while the total installed capacity of wind and solar power is targeted to reach more than 1,200 gigawatts, Xinhua said.
The guidelines also reiterated an earlier aim for carbon emissions per unit of GDP to fall 18% in 2025, from 2020 standards.
Authorities called for a shift in industrial structures, saying they would "resolutely curb the blind development" of projects with high energy consumption and emissions.
The scale of coal-based oil and gas production capacity should be "reasonably controlled" too, authorities said, while calling for the development of low-carbon industries.
Meanwhile, they also stressed the need for effective responses against economic and social risks that could accompany a low-carbon transition, and to "prevent overreaction and ensure safe carbon reduction".
Economic planners are nervous about slashing coal too quickly amid fears it could cripple growth.
While China said in an earlier statement that Xi intended to "strictly control" the growth of coal power plants, it also signalled a continued increase in the next few years, saying coal consumption would start to gradually reduce from 2026.
#166
France's EDF is considering extending the life of two British nuclear power plants due to the severity of the energy crisis.
EDF said on Wednesday that it would review whether there was a case to keep open the Hartlepool nuclear power plant in County Durham and Heysham 1 on the north-west coast of England near Lancaster. Both plants had been scheduled to close in March 2024.
EDF operates all of Britain's eight nuclear power plants, five of which are still providing power to the grid, about 13% of the UK's electricity. The entire fleet is due to shut by 2028 apart from Sizewell B, which will close in 2035.
When EDF took over the nuclear fleet in 2009, Heysham 1 and Hartlepool were due to run until 2014. After technical reviews, that was extended to 2019 and then, in 2016, a further five-year extension was approved after further reviews.
Sources said any extra lifespan for the stations was likely to be far shorter than previous extensions. The stations - which produce 2.2 gigawatts of power, enough to power 3.5m homes - have been operational for four decades.
EDF said it had decided to launch the review "in light of the severity of the energy crisis and the results of recent graphite inspections" and said an extension would "depend on the results of graphite inspections over the coming months".
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has sparked turmoil in energy markets and sent gas and electricity prices soaring. It has also caused an international dash for gas supplies and raised concerns over potential blackouts this winter.
The government has moved to shore up winter energy supplies, signing deals to keep coal-fired power stations in Yorkshire and the east Midlands on standby including EDF's West Burton A plant in Nottinghamshire.
Mike Clancy, general secretary of the Prospect union, said: "The government has had no option but to keep these plants on longer term. It underlines that we need a long-term plan for energy generation. We're a decade late on nuclear and if we don't move fast enough we will miss the boat on other fuels, like hydrogen. The government needs to give people the confidence to invest."
Some power-generation companies, including those on nuclear, old solar and windfarm contracts have landed an unexpected windfall from the jump in electricity prices while their costs have not risen, triggering calls for a windfall tax.
EDF said its nuclear fleet would generate 42 terawatt hours of power in 2022. It said that, because it had sold its output in advance, it had delivered at "well below current wholesale prices".
The Guardian revealed earlier this month that Centrica, which owns a 20% stake in the nuclear fleet alongside EDF, wants to renegotiate its electricity-generation contracts.
Tom Burke, co-founder of the green thinktank E3G, said: "In the current climate it makes a lot of sense [to extend the plants' lifespans]. The question is mainly about the cost: is the extra time you're buying worth the cost of keeping it safe? The Office for Nuclear Regulation are not going to play fast and loose with safety so then it depends on the spend. With electricity prices where they are now it probably does make sense."
EDF said it plans to invest £1bn in the nuclear fleet from 2023 to 2025. The debt-laden company, which is being fully nationalised by the French government, is developing the delayed and over-budget Hinkley Point C project in Somerset.
It is also behind plans for a sister station, Sizewell C, in Suffolk, which was given the green light in the final days of Boris Johnson's premiership.
Tom Greatrex, the chief executive of the Nuclear Industry Association, said: "Getting the most out of our existing nuclear stations is vital to ensuring Britain has a secure supply of power going forward."
The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, on Tuesday pledged to launch Great British Energy, a publicly owned energy company run on clean UK power, if elected.
#167
The energy industry has thrown its weight behind a plan it says could save homes and businesses up to £18bn a year, by reducing the prices charged for electricity generated from sources other than gas.
Energy UK, the trade body for the sector, said its proposals could cut £18bn a year from energy bills, including £11bn for businesses.
This could deliver a saving for households of between £150 and £250 a year.
The business secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, is understood to have met members of Energy UK to discuss the proposal and is said to be considering it seriously as an option to present to the next prime minister.
The Conservative party will announce the result of a vote for its new leader on Monday, with Liz Truss widely expected to win the mandate.

The voluntary scheme would work by separating the cost of electricity from sources such as nuclear, solar and windfarms from the sky-high prices being paid for electricity generated by burning gas in power stations.
Gas prices have more than tripled since Russia began reducing the volumes pumped into Europe in the months before its invasion of Ukraine.
At the moment, the way electricity auctions are designed means the price of all electricity is closely pegged to the price of gas.
Under the proposals - first suggested by the UK Energy Research Centre - nuclear power stations and renewable electricity generators would be encouraged to sign up to a new type of contract. These contracts for difference (CfDs) would mean selling their electricity at a lower price, but one that was fixed and guaranteed over a number of years.
Many older nuclear, solar and wind generators are on renewable obligation (RO) contracts, under which they sell at the current wholesale rate.
The market structure has led to those on RO contracts benefiting from higher prices, potentially making windfall profits. Energy UK is urging ministers to make it possible for RO contracts to be exchanged for CfDs.
Adam Berman, Energy UK's deputy director, said: "The current energy market doesn't allow customers to fully benefit from the cheapest form of electricity - domestically produced low-carbon generation.
"This scheme would be a significant first step to decoupling gas from retail electricity prices.
"Removing the link between gas and retail electricity prices will be complex and take time, but this solution provides a quick fix for up to 40% of our generation capacity."
The energy industry regulator, Ofgem, is also looking to reform the market in the long term to delink the price of electricity from gas. Several European countries are considering a similar move.
The chancellor, Nadhim Zahawi, said on Thursday the Treasury was examining several options to help consumers this winter. This could also include the Bank of England providing support to energy suppliers for hedging costs, which could allow consumer bills to be reduced.
The energy supplier Ovo has put forward an alternative solution which would involve reducing the price of energy for domestic users, but only for a limited amount of units per household. Energy consumption beyond that level would be charged at a higher price.
Why is the price of electricity pegged to gas?
Typically, electricity prices reflect gas prices. This is because the types of energy needed to produce electricity for the UK are ranked, with renewables and nuclear prioritised ahead of coal and gas.
The price of electricity is set every half hour by the margin cost of the last generating unit to be switched off to meet demand, typically gas. This pushes up electricity prices when wholesale gas prices rise.
What is an energy contract for difference?
Under these contracts, electricity plants are paid a flat rate for what they produce over 15 years.
That rate is the difference between the "strike price" - an agreed price which reflects the investment in green technology - and the "reference price", which is a reflection of the wholesale market price for electricity in the UK.
If the market price is higher than the strike price, the Low Carbon Contracts Company, which is wholly owned by the government, ensures these savings are passed on to consumer bills. If the market price is lower, the LCCC makes up the shortfall.
The government uses this system, introduced in 2017, to support the development of low-carbon electricity generation projects with high upfront costs and long lifetimes to protect developers from volatile wholesale prices.
However, only about 15% of the total fleet of renewable power projects have a CfD; most are remunerated through the older Renewables Obligation Certificate payments.
What are renewables obligation certificates?
Under the renewables obligation model, designed for wind and solar, power generators receive the value of their electricity on the wholesale market, as well as an additional subsidy. Therefore, generators on these contracts have benefited from the soaring gas prices so far this year.
 This article was amended on 1 September 2022. Based on incorrect information provided to the Guardian, an earlier version reported that Energy UK had estimated the plan would save homes and businesses up to £29bn a year; Energy UK later clarified its estimate was up to £18bn.
#168
The risk of power cuts to factories and homes this winter has increased, the National Grid warned, as the business secretary prepared for a crunch meeting with industry bosses concerned the energy crisis may force them to scale back production.
The price of gas and electricity has soared in recent weeks, leading to the collapse of multiple energy suppliers and prompting warnings of higher costs for consumers, factory shutdowns and increased pollution as plants switch to dirtier but cheaper fuels.
The unfolding energy crisis has coincided with the Grid's annual assessment of Great Britain's resilience to disruption to electricity supplies, with the key "margin" figure falling to its lowest in five years.
The Grid's electricity system operator (ESO) said the amount of reserve electricity supply that could be called upon was expected to be 6.6% of demand, but could fall as low as 4.2%.
It said it believed there was enough slack in the system to avoid blackouts affecting households and factories.
But it said that conditions had worsened since a prediction it made in July, after a fire knocked out a high-voltage subsea power cable importing electricity from France. Half of the 2GW cable is expected to be unavailable until March.
Planned shutdowns at gas plants and the retirement of two nuclear reactors are also factors in the tighter margin for the winter.
The business secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, is due to meet leaders from industries such as steel, glass, ceramics and chemicals on Friday, but is expected to tell them to forget about receiving any extra assistance.
While factories are not expected to face electricity blackouts, they say they need help with costs. Some of the most energy-intensive industries have issued a plea to the government for financial support to help them cope with soaring energy prices.
They say the cost of electricity could force factory shutdowns, production slowdowns, and switches from gas to more polluting energy sources such as fuel oil, potentially causing embarrassment ahead of the upcoming Cop26 climate conference in Glasgow.
Shadow business minister Ed Miliband said the gas price crisis was "made in Downing Street".
"The UK is particularly vulnerable to increases in gas prices because the government allowed our gas storage facilities to close, blocked onshore wind, cut solar subsidies, stalled our nuclear programme and because of their total failure to deliver a long-term plan for energy efficiency."
On Thursday, the Grid said that the UK would have to outbid European countries to get hold of gas over the winter, indicating further pressure on prices.
Energy advisory group Cornwall Insight has said the average dual fuel bill could rise by as much as 30% next year if gas and electricity prices continue to soar and more suppliers go bust, reaching £1,660 annually.
While the government has imposed an energy price cap, the ceiling rises regularly in line with costs faced by suppliers, who have been battered by soaring wholesale prices.
So far this year, 12 suppliers have collapsed, with many more predicted to go to the wall by the end of the year. Jonathan Brearley, chief executive of energy regulator Ofgem, told an industry conference on Thursday that the watchdog needed to be "more focused on business models and the risk they carry" in future.
Speaking at the same event, Kwarteng said the government "will not bail out failed companies, there cannot be a reward for irresponsible management of businesses."
Some small suppliers have been criticised for setting up shop with risky business models that meant they weren't properly "hedged" against rising gas prices.
Officials at the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy are understood to be considering measures to speed up the UK's transition to renewable energy to reduce reliance on gas, including more frequent windfarm auctions.
Boris Johnson this week pledged to remove fossil fuels from electricity generation by 2035.
While coal has been all but phased out of power generation, gas can still account for more than 50% of supply on windless days when the sun isn't shining.
Kwarteng said on Thursday that reducing reliance would involve boosting wind power, gas plants that use carbon capture and storage to reduce carbon emissions and "at least" one nuclear project.
The government is expected to rubber-stamp French state-owned energy company EDF's plans for a the Sizewell C reactor in Suffolk but has yet to find a developer for Wylfa Newydd, on Anglesey.
Officials are drawing up plans to overhaul the way nuclear power stations are funded, to make them more attractive to private investors.
Kwarteng said "the volatility of the gas price has shown that we do need to plan strategically, and I think net zero helps us do that, for a secure, affordable, and sustainable energy system."
Gas prices have soared across Europe but have been particularly high in the UK, reaching record levels above £4 per therm.
The International Energy Agency said on Thursday that Russia could help ease the crisis, telling the Financial Times that the Kremlin was able to increase gas flows into Europe by up to 15%.
Russian president Vladimir Putin has said Europe's "mistakes" are to blame for the crisis, rather than any reluctance in Moscow to open gas taps.
However, he used the opportunity to highlight regulatory delays in Europe to the new Nord Stream 2 pipeline, saying the planned connection could help bring down prices.
#169
The EU has been forced to water down its plan to ration gas this winter in an attempt to avoid an energy crisis generated by further Russian cuts to supply.
Energy ministers from the 27 member states, except Hungary, backed a voluntary 15% reduction in gas usage over the winter, a target that could become mandatory if the Kremlin ordered a complete shutdown of gas to Europe.
After days of fraught negotiations, ministers agreed opt-outs for island nations and possible exclusions for countries little connected to the European gas network, which will blunt the overall effect in the event of a full-blown gas crisis.
The deal came less than 24 hours after Russia's state-controlled energy firm, Gazprom, announced a steep reduction in gas supplies through the critical Nord Stream 1 pipeline from Wednesday. The head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said there was "no justifiable technical reason" for the cut.

She has accused the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, of attempting to blackmail European countries for supporting Ukraine. Russia has cut or reduced supplies to a dozen EU countries.
"The announcement by Gazprom that it is further cutting gas deliveries to Europe through Nord Stream 1, for no justifiable technical reason, further illustrates the unreliable nature of Russia as an energy supplier," Von der Leyen said. "Thanks to today's decision, we are now ready to address our energy security at a European scale, as a union."
EU officials hailed the agreement as a milestone for a united energy policy that recalled the leap in integration on health taken during the Covid pandemic.
Jozef Síkela, the Czech minister of industry and trade, who brokered the final deal, said: "I know the decision was not easy but I think at the end everyone understands that this sacrifice was necessary. We have to and we will share the pain," he told reporters. He said the decision meant Europe could avoid "dramatic consequences in winter", including price hikes.
'We will share the pain': EU to ration gas this winter in case Russia cuts supply - video
The European Commission had suggested that a collective 15% gas savings target would reduce gas consumption by 45bn cubic metres. Once exemptions are taken into account the final tally will be lower, after a revolt led by southern European countries that use less or no Russian gas. A senior EU diplomat said the plan would not hit the 45bn cubic metres estimate in the event of a major supply crisis, but still added up to "significant reductions".
But the backing for the plan was not unanimous. Hungary, which has already secured an opt-out from the EU's embargo on Russian oil, was alone in voicing its opposition. Unusually for an EU energy ministers' meeting, Hungary was represented by its foreign minister, Péter Szijjártó, who was given an award by Putin last November, only a few months before Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Hungary has backed EU sanctions against Russia but has blamed the measures for increasing prices for Hungarian drivers and households, a link strongly rebutted by Brussels.
Under the energy savings plan, all EU member states will strive to reduce gas consumption by 15% from August through to the end of March. In the event of a total shutdown of Russian gas or high demand, EU states can declare an energy emergency that triggers immediate mandatory savings. Member states rejected an attempt by the European Commission to decide when an energy emergency was under way, which would launch compulsory energy rationing.
Countries will be exempt from mandatory cuts if they are island nations unconnected to the EU gas network, a provision that applies to Ireland, Malta and Cyprus.
The Baltic states can also apply for an exemption because their electricity systems are linked to Russia, making them vulnerable to blackouts in the event of a Kremlin-ordered switch-off. The exemption is designed to protect the three former Soviet countries if they are forced to rely on gas to boost electricity supplies.
Member states can also ask for an exemption or reduced savings target if they are little connected to the European gas network and can send liquified natural gas to their neighbours, a provision that affects Spain.
Spain, with Portugal and Greece, led opposition to the uniform 15% target, arguing it was unfair and failed to take account of their national circumstances.
Arriving at the Brussels meeting, Spain's minister for ecological transition, Teresa Ribera, said no one questioned the need for solidarity but the initial proposal was "not necessarily the most effective approach". Her rejection of the proposal last week kindled memories of the eurozone crisis, when southern European member states faced strictures from Germany for falling into debt.
Turning the eurozone debate on its head, Ribera said Spain had "done our homework" by investing in infrastructure to boost supplies of liquified natural gas, comments that were widely seen as an implicit criticism of Berlin's decades-long reliance on cheap Russian gas.
Critics complained the plans had been designed to help Germany, which has been accused of allowing itself to become dangerously dependent on Russian gas.
"Germany made a strategic error in the past with its great dependency on Russian gas and the faith that it would always flow constantly and cheaply," said Germany's vice-chancellor, Robert Habeck, who is responsible for energy. "But it is not just a German problem."
France's minister for energy transition, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, said the health of the whole European economy was at stake: "Our industrial chains are completely interdependent: if the chemical industry in Germany coughs, the whole of European industry could come to a halt."
#170
A lobbying firm whose clients include the oil giant BP provided "administrative support" to a committee of Conservative MPs conducting an inquiry into the energy crisis.
Crowne Associates took meeting minutes and helped compile reports for the 1922 backbench committee on business, energy and industrial strategy. The influential sub-committee, chaired by the former business secretary Andrea Leadsom, went on to recommend policies sympathetic to the oil and gas industry, including calling for a loosening of planning laws to enable fracking.
It also said many MPs supported "sensible" new fossil fuel projects including "maximising production from the North Sea basin", and suggested the government promote "self-help" measures to help consumers to cut their own bills, such as turning down radiators.
The findings have prompted calls for greater oversight of backbench committees and will raise fresh concerns about the potential for fossil fuel lobbying in Westminster amid climate breakdown and an energy price crisis.
Crowne Associates' link to BP, which it claims is unrelated to its work with the sub-committee, was not mentioned in the reports and came to light last week following analysis of transparency records by the Observer, four months after the firm's work for the sub-committee began.
Leadsom declared on 27 July that since 21 March she had received about £2,093 worth of "secretariat support" from Crowne Associates, which describes itself as a "strategic advice agency". The donation in kind was to support her role leading two inquiries relating to the energy sector - one into energy price rises and a second into geothermal heating, according to the entry.
Andrea Leadsom chairs the committee and declared receiving secretariat support from Crowne Associates. Photograph: PA Images/Alamy
The sub-committee subsequently published two reports - in March and July - bearing the official House of Commons emblem. The reports said secretariat support had been provided by the Purpose Coalition, described on its website as a campaign tackling "social challenges".
A footnote says it is run by This Is Purpose, a trading name for Crowne Associates, which represents clients including the Betting and Gaming Council and BP, according to the register of consultant lobbyists. The 1922 sub-committee said Crowne Associates and its clients had "no involvement or influence in any of the content [of its reports] at any time".
Crowne Associates said its work for BP was separate from its work for the MPs, while BP said it had hired the company not to represent its interests in Westminster but to conduct research into social mobility.
But campaigners said the fact a lobbying firm was providing secretariat services to a parliamentary group raised concerns about the potential for lobbying in parliament and the possibility of private interests gaining front-row access to key policymakers and discussions.
Faye Holder, programme manager for oil and gas at the InfluenceMap thinktank, which tracks lobbying by polluting industries, said the arrangements could enable companies to "launder their influence" via "opaque intermediaries".
She said: "This is highly concerning from a transparency point of view."
Darren Jones, chair of the business, energy and industrial strategy (BEIS) committee and a Labour MP, added that private firms did not usually play a role in backbench committees because declaring benefits was "very difficult". He said: "My view is that if backbench committees are going to be doing this kind of work, there should be additional regulation and oversight of the work they're doing and the way in which they're financed. It's either a loophole or a black hole for regulation."
He added that the use of the parliamentary logo on the 1922 sub-committee's reports was a "red flag" that wrongly suggested they were official reports from parliament, not produced with support from industry. "If these reports are having influence on ministers, that would be very significant," he said.
There has been a series of revelations about lobbying by the fossil fuel industry, which has been widely blamed for delaying the response to global warming since the first warnings in the 1980s.
Recent investigations into "back door" lobbying have focused on all-party parliamentary groups, which are informal cross-party groups of MPs, rather than backbench committees, which are made up of MPs from a single party who advise frontbenchers on policy. The central 1922 Committee of backbench Tory MPs is seen as pivotal in shaping policy and has historically wielded great sway over the party leadership. Sir Graham Brady, its chair, said sub-committees such as the BEIS one were elected under the central committee's auspices but "entirely independent in their activities".
A spokeswoman for Leadsom said the BEIS backbench committee was "grateful to have received secretarial support" from Crowne Associates in "writing up the minutes of independent evidence sessions and compiling the two reports so far" and said it had no influence over its work. The spokeswoman added that there was "no financial connection" with the committee and that the £2,093 sum declared in the register of interests from the firm was "purely notional".
She said: "Each of the 1922 backbench committees identify and arrange their own secretarial support. The secretariat support provided by This Is Purpose is clearly disclosed in the report and in the MPs' register in accordance with the guidelines."
She said the use of the parliamentary logo was allowed on the reports because it was "clear" that backbench committees were not official committees, adding that the secretariat support from Crowne Associates was declared in July because "it did not reach the declarable threshold until the second inquiry was completed".
Crowne Associates, trading as This Is Purpose, said its work for the MPs and BP was separate and that it was "not contracted by BP's government affairs team". It added: "The recommendations for the report are wholly the committee's own and all our work is properly declared."
BP said the company was "hired by a completely different part of the business to conduct research for our social mobility report which outlines how we can better support social mobility and support more apprenticeships and work placements".
#171
MPs have questioned whether the energy regulator, Ofgem, is fit to police the industry after it was blamed for costing British households billions of pounds as a result of suppliers going bust.
Politicians on the powerful public accounts committee said Ofgem had failed to govern the sector "at a considerable cost to billpayers" in a damning report into the regulation of energy suppliers.
The regulator was blamed for failing to prevent the collapse of 29 energy suppliers since July 2021, affecting about 4 million households. The failures cost consumers an estimated £2.7bn, or an extra £94 each, through a charge on their bills to recover the cost of managing customers' transfers to a new supplier.
That figure does not include the billions the government has spent in bailing out Bulb Energy, which was by far the largest supplier to collapse, with 1.5 million customers. Bulb was snapped up by rival Octopus Energy late last month after nearly a year in a government-handled administration.
A wave of suppliers has collapsed during the energy crisis because of a surge in wholesale gas prices last year, which was then exacerbated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February. The MPs' report accused Ofgem of being "too slow to act" to ensure suppliers were financially resilient, even before the crisis.
The regulator had attempted to increase competition by opening up the energy market to new suppliers. However, the introduction of a cap on energy bills under Theresa May's government, combined with a surge in wholesale gas prices, exposed the weakness of many companies' balance sheets.
Dame Meg Hillier MP, chair of the committee, said: "It is true that global factors caused the unprecedented gas and electricity prices that have caused so many energy supplier failures over the last year, at such terrible cost to households. But the fact remains that we have regulators to set the framework to shore us up for the bad times."
She added: "Problems in the energy supply market were apparent in 2018, years before the unprecedented spike in prices that sparked the current crisis, and Ofgem was too slow to act. Households will pay dear, with the cost of bailouts added to record and rising bills. The committee wants to see a plan, within six months, for how government and Ofgem will put customers' interests at the heart of a reformed energy market, driving the transition to net zero."
The committee said it is "not convinced that Ofgem yet has the skills and capacity it needs to take a more proactive role in regulating the energy supplier market". The report showed Ofgem, led by chief executive Jonathan Brearley, has increased the size of its workforce from 816 staff in 2018 to 1,400 now and has asked the Treasury for more resources.
The committee made a series of recommendations including a review of the "supplier of last resort" process, which ensures continuity of supply when a supplier fails.
It also wants Ofgem to show how it has increased its capacity to assess suppliers' financial risk and called for a review of its price cap.
The cap has been sidelined by the energy price guarantee, a policy introduced by Liz Truss to limit the average household bill at £2,500 for six months. However, Ofgem's price cap will come back into force for those not receiving further support from April.
Ofgem said: "The sheer scale and pace of this once-in-a-generation global energy price shock meant supplier failures were seen all over the world. However, the supplier of last resort scheme acted as a vital safety net for British consumers, ensuring they continued to receive energy when their supplier failed and kept their credit balances. This safety net inevitably incurred costs.
"Looking ahead to this winter, prices remain volatile, however the market is now in a much more resilient position, partly due to robust steps we've taken to reduce the risk of future supplier failures and to raise the bar on entry for new suppliers. And our proactive compliance reviews have dug deep into the practices of all energy suppliers, enabling us to demand improvements where they have been found lacking."
#172
Investment in new large-scale solar and windfarms and the number of construction jobs in renewable energy fell dramatically in the first half of 2021, according to industry data.
A report by the Clean Energy Council says only three major projects reached financial sign-off in the second quarter of the year. The average quarterly investment in new renewable energy capacity this year is 29% lower than 2020 and 70% below 2018 levels, it said.
It meant that at any one time there had been only 1,300 construction jobs in large-scale renewable energy, a 2,700 drop on the industry's peak three years ago. 

Kane Thornton, the chief executive, said the fall in investment was a result of increased risk factors facing investors, including ongoing concern over delays in getting new renewable energy plants connected to the electricity grid.
He also blamed the Morrison government's resistance to higher and long-term climate targets, and proposed Energy Security Board reforms including the creation of a "capacity market" that offer support for ageing coal power plants to extend their lives.
The decline in investment in large-scale clean energy has continued while the Morrison government has shifted its policy focus to lowering the cost of commercially unproven technologies such as carbon capture and storage and low-emissions hydrogen to cut greenhouse gas emissions. It says it supports a "technology, not taxes" approach to tackling climate change.
"The reality is we have proven technologies," Thornton said. "In fact, wind and solar have been deployed at very strong rates over previous years. They don't actually need taxes to deploy them, we just need some sensible government policy."
A major report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change this week stressed emissions from burning fossil fuels and deforestation are driving widespread and rapid changes across the planet at a scale unprecedented in thousands of years.
Scientists and world leaders said it underlined the need for rapid emissions reductions before 2030.
Jonathan Pershing, the US deputy presidential climate envoy, told Guardian Australia the scientific evidence suggested an advanced economy such as Australia should be cutting emissions by about 50% by 2030, compared to 2005 levels. The Morrison government's target is a 26-28% cut.
Renewable energy provided nearly 30% of the electricity in the national electricity market, covering the five eastern states and the ACT, last year. Government data shows a continuing dramatic increase in rooftop solar increases, with nearly 3m households now having systems. The Morrison government says it shows Australia is the global leader in solar uptake.
But investment in large-scale plants has slowed since a national renewable energy target was met and not extended or replaced. The Clean Energy Council said investment in windfarms had nearly dried up. Only one windfarm had reached financial close in the past 18 months, compared to 17 in 2018.
State governments in NSW, Victoria and Queensland have introduced policies to support wind and solar farms and energy storage as the federal government walked away from plans for a national policy.
Australia's largest emitting company, AGL, on Thursday called for a better plan to coordinate the closure of coal-fired power plants.
Research by the Reserve Bank last year showed renewable energy investment surged to make up nearly 5% of non-mining business spending across Australia in 2018, but then fell sharply. A research note by bank economists noted the renewable energy industry supports activity and employment in regional areas.
#173
"It's hot," says Steve Springett, a director of the renewable energy brand Egg, cheerily assessing the solar market. "There's two key factors: people are understanding the environmental benefits of it better, and energy is really, really expensive at the moment."
Consumer interest has increased in recent months as Britons hunt for ways to cut huge energy bills. A reduction in VAT on energy efficient systems from 5% to nothing this spring has added to the appeal of solar power.
The number of eBay searches for solar panels and solar power batteries increased by 54% and 134% respectively in June compared with same period last year. Consumers are also increasingly hunting for smart meters as they try to keep a handle on their energy use.
Murray Lambell, the general manager of eBay UK, says: "As the cost of living crisis hits, shoppers are seeking out savvy investments to keep energy costs low wherever they can. Many are choosing green energy options as a solution that's good for their wallet and the planet, and we've seen a significant surge in demand for products like solar panels and batteries as a result."
The boom is the latest in an industry so known for its unpredictable fortunes that it has been called the "solar coaster". The name emerged from peaks and troughs created by the government's "feed-in tariffs", through which householders received payments for the electricity generated by eligible systems to incentivise their uptake.
A rush of installations took place on the eve of each deadline before payments would become less generous, followed by a fallow period. The closure of the scheme to new applicants in March 2019 drained some of the buoyancy from the market. Industry watchers say the market had become more stable since the scheme ended - until this year.
Data from the consumer credit reporting company Experian shows that about 1.9 million households intend to install solar panels or other renewable capabilities this year.
Springett says the huge increase in energy bills could reduce the time it takes to recoup the cost of an installed system, coming down from "double-digit years" to more like seven, depending on size and location of the property. Warranties usually last for 25 years and the panels - also known as photovoltaic cells - can last for up to 40 years. Costs typically vary between £5,000 and £15,000 for a family home, and applications to connect to the grid can take about three months.
"There's a definite crossover between people who are getting solar panels, and electric cars and heat pumps. They want the whole package," Springett says.
The clamour for panels is now so great that one senior industry executive says his company ran out of labour and materials to take new orders. "I tried to pass on inquiries to competitors to help out the customers only to find out they didn't have the capacity to help them either. A lot of the installers went back to their professions, like electricians, when the feed-in scheme ended, and it's hard to get them back," he says.
The solar panel industry is noticeably fragmented in the UK, with few nationwide players. Ikea sold solar panels and batteries in the UK for two years before stopping in 2019, although it still sells them in Europe. Britain's Solarcentury, which was founded by the oil geologist Jeremy Leggett, was bought by the Norwegian renewables specialist Statkraft in late 2020.
UK institutional investors have shown more interest in the industry of late. Shares in NextEnergy Solar Fund - which invests in large projects in the UK and Italy - have risen by 7% this year, valuing the London-listed investment company at £640m. In the US, John Burger, the founder and chief executive of Sunnova, recently said his company, which is one of the country's biggest residential solar firms, had had its best ever day of sales. However, tightening regulations, tough markets and concerns over rising interest rates have pummelled the stocks of industry giants including First Solar and Sunrun.
For businesses, rising electricity bills - along with labour costs - have made solar panels an attractive investment.
Amazon has announced plans to roll out solar panels across all of its UK sites, and will have more than 30,000 new modular solar panels installed on its facilities in Manchester, Coalville, Haydock Green, Wakefield, Bristol and Milton Keynes by the end of the year.
The increase in consumer interest in installing solar panels has highlighted difficulties in sourcing them. A squeeze on global shipping capacity and freight rates triggered by the pandemic has led to a shortage of inverters, devices that convert the direct current created by the panels to alternating current used to power the home. The panels themselves are typically made in Asia, with a central hub in China.
Sign up to the daily Business Today email or follow Guardian Business on Twitter at @BusinessDesk
During a parliamentary debate last week, the Conservative MP Nus Ghani noted that much of the production took place in Xinjiang, where China has been accused of potentially committing genocide against the Uyghur population. Xinjiang, officially an autonomous region of China, accounts for about 45% of the world's supply of polysilicon, the key component of solar panels.
Asked about the sourcing of solar panels from China, the business secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, said: "What's happened over the last 20 years is that the Chinese have had a very strategic game, they could see which way the global economy was going and they essentially monopolised and gathered extensive capacity in their own hands, and we're in a world now where we're trying to get away from overdependence."
Kwarteng has targeted a tripling in solar power by 2030, increasing capacity from 15 gigawatts now to 50GW. With further jumps in energy bills expected in October and again next year, consumer frenzy to pile in this summer could well set Britain on its way towards hitting that target.
#174
The French government will force EDF, the state energy giant, to take an €8.4bn (£7bn) financial hit to protect households from rocketing energy costs by limiting bill hikes to 4% this year.
The company lost a fifth of its market value on Friday after the French government set out plans to cap rising energy bills, which include forcing EDF to sell electricity generated by its fleet of nuclear reactors to rival home suppliers at well below the current record high market prices.
The move underlines pressure on governments across Europe to help households squeezed by the cost-of-living crisis. The UK chancellor, Rishi Sunak, has been accused of being "missing in action" over soaring energy bills. He has been in talks with MPs and companies to agree a package of measures to soften the blow of the national energy crisis, but no decisions have been made.
In Spain, the government introduced a windfall tax on electricity generators and gas producers that are able to profit from the record market highs to help keep home energy bills low. In Germany, the government has slashed a surcharge on bills used to support renewable energy schemes, which will instead receive extra state subsidies drawn from higher carbon taxes.
EDF also told investors that its nuclear power generation for the year ahead would be about 10% lower than initially expected due technical problems at a handful of its nuclear reactors.
The French government, which faced fierce public protest against fuel price hikes in 2018, has already cut some electricity taxes to help slow the rise in home energy bills at an estimated €8bn cost to the state.
Governments across Europe are under pressure to intervene in the energy market to protect households against an unprecedented surge in wholesale market prices, driven by a global gas supply crunch that has lifted markets to all-time highs.
Under the French government's new measures, it has kept a tight lid on the regulated price that EDF is allowed to charge for its nuclear electricity, which will rise to €46.2 per megawatt-hour, from €42/MWh, despite a record surge in electricity market prices across Europe in recent months.
EDF said the plan could hit its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation by between €7.7bn and €8.4bn based on market prices in December and January. Barbara Pompili, France's environment minister, said the government planned to help EDF withstand the blow but has offered no details on this.
The nuclear power giant also told investors that its reactors would generate less electricity than expected this year. This is because of a string of faults at five of its nuclear plants which will require downtime to undertake maintenance work. EDF estimates that it will generate 300-330 terawatt-hours this year, down from 330-360 TWh previously.
The company's share price tumbled from €10.35 at Thursday's close to €7.92 on Friday morning.
#175
Boris Johnson is to put nuclear energy at the heart of the UK's new energy strategy, but ministers have refused to set targets for onshore wind and vowed to continue the exploitation of North Sea oil and gas.
Amid deep divisions among senior Conservatives, the strategy will enrage environmentalists, who say the government's plans are in defiance of its own net-zero targets and neglect alternative measures that experts say would provide much quicker relief from high energy bills.
The prime minister will launch the plan on Thursday, after a period of intense political wrangling set against the backdrop of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which has convulsed energy markets and sent home energy bills rocketing.
Whitehall sources said rows over the strategy between No 10, the Treasury and the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) continued right up until the eve of publication, with an insider describing the process as "chaos".
The cabinet eventually agreed that atomic energy would form the backbone of the strategy, and up to eight new reactors are planned.
Targets for offshore wind and solar power generation will also be raised, in a push for 95% of Great Britain's electricity to come from domestic low-carbon energy sources by 2030.
But the plans risk infuriating environmental campaigners, after the opportunity to remove barriers to more onshore wind farms appeared to fall victim to Tory in-fighting, new North Sea drilling won the government's blessing, and ministers appeared to open the door to fracking.
Opposition parties were scathing about the strategy. Two former energy secretaries from Labour and the Liberal Democrats branded it "ludicrous" and "hopeless" for failing to expand onshore wind power or tackle energy efficiency.
Ed Miliband, the Labour climate change secretary, said the energy relaunch was "in disarray" and would do nothing to help the millions of families facing an energy crisis now. "Boris Johnson has completely caved to his own backbenchers and now, ludicrously, his own energy strategy has failed on the sprint we needed on onshore wind and solar - the cheapest, cleanest forms of homegrown power," he said.
Ed Davey, the Lib Dem leader and another former energy secretary, added: "The Conservatives' failure to help people cut their bills with an urgent energy insulation programme, the failure to back super-cheap onshore wind and the failure to back properly new technologies like tidal power and hydrogen is a total betrayal of families and pensioners across the UK."
The energy strategy outlines a wide-ranging plan to boost domestic energy production through a range of power sources. They include:
* Increasing nuclear capacity from 7 gigawatts to 24GW
* Offshore wind target raised from 40GW to 50GW (from 11GW today)
* Solar could grow five times from 14GW to 70GW by 2035
* An "impartial" review into whether fracking is safe
* Up to 10GW of hydrogen power by 2030
Johnson said the plan will "reduce our dependence on power sources exposed to volatile international prices we cannot control, so we can enjoy greater energy self-sufficiency with cheaper bills".
"This plan comes in light of rising global energy prices, provoked by surging demand after the pandemic as well as Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
"This will be central to weaning Britain off expensive fossil fuels, which are subject to volatile gas prices set by international markets we are unable to control, and boosting our diverse sources of homegrown energy for greater energy security in the long term."
Wind turbines operated by ScottishPower Renewables at Whitelee on Eaglesham Moor, southwest of Glasgow, the UK's largest onshore wind farm. Environmental campaigners are unhappy over Tory infighting scuppering the use of more renewable energy. Photograph: Andy Buchanan/AFP/Getty
While some renewable domestic energy sources won backing, the wind industry's hopes of getting the green light to double onshore capacity to 30GW appeared to have fallen victim to opposition from within the Conservative party to new projects, particularly in England.
Communities who live near planned new projects could be offered incentives, such as guaranteed lower energy bills, but the plan does not include targets for increased generation.
Cabinet colleagues have been at odds over whether to reform planning laws to spur faster development of onshore windfarms, which can take as little as a year to build and start contributing to the grid, but were described by transport secretary Grant Shapps as an "eyesore" at the weekend.
Shapps and chief whip Chris Heaton-Harris, a longstanding opponent of onshore wind, are among a group of MPs who have sought to thwart a major rollout in England, with Michael Gove and business minister Kwasi Kwarteng - whose brief includes energy - among those to have pushed back.
The business department is also understood to have been thwarted by the Treasury in a plan to channel £300m of budget underspend into a rapid rollout of energy efficiency upgrades that could aid homeowners in bringing down their bills.
Solar won significant backing from the government, which said planning rules could be relaxed to favour development on non-protected land, enabling capacity to increase up to fivefold, from 14GW to 70GW. The target for hydrogen power will be doubled to 10GW by 2030 "subject to affordability and value for money".
Overall, "clean" energy sources could provide up to 40,000 new jobs, reaching a total of 480,000 by 2030, the government will say.
But alongside the push for renewables sit plans that will alarm opponents of further oil and gas exploitation.
The British Geological Survey will conduct an "impartial" review of whether fracking for shale gas can proceed safely, a move likely to spark fury among environmental campaigners about the controversial technology, particularly after a moratorium was imposed on the process in 2019.
New North Sea oil and gas projects are also likely to be accelerated, although the strategy sets out proposals to limit emissions as much as possible.
Nuclear power forms the centrepiece of the energy strategy. Ministers expect to begin a competitive selection process as early as next year for a new round of nuclear projects, although tensions between Downing Street and the Treasury over the cost of new projects, which are expected to require government investment, have yet to be resolved.
The target of producing 25% of Britain's electricity from atomic energy is likely to require tens of billions of pounds of new investment from private companies, with the state providing guarantees under a new "regulated asset base" funding model.
A £120m "Future Nuclear Enabling Fund" will be launched this month in the hope of kickstarting projects, while a new body called Great British Nuclear will oversee the plans.
National Grid has predicted that peak electricity demand will hit 85GW by 2050, up from 60GW today, because of factors such as the electrification of vehicles and home heating.
The government said it could approve up to eight new reactors to help reach a target of generating 24GW of the total from nuclear power plants, which typically have more than one reactor.
Some of the increase can be achieved by extending the life of the Sizewell B reactor, while the Hinkley Point C project is due for completion in 2027 and Rolls-Royce has the government's blessing for small reactors nicknamed "mini-nukes".
Major projects that have already been through some form of planning, such as Sizewell C and Wylfa, on Anglesey, have been singled out by the government as among the first to win support.
The target also implies new plants at sites whose locations have already been approved but where no plans are under way, such as Oldbury in Gloucestershire or Moorside (Sellafield) in Cumbria.
While Russia's invasion of Ukraine has prompted global discussion on how to reduce reliance on Kremlin-controlled oil and gas, it appears to have cooled the government's resolve to limit the UK's own fossil fuel production.
Drilling for oil and gas in the North Sea is at odds with the government's own net-zero targets. The government will justify the plans by saying that local exploitation of hydrocarbons emits less carbon than importing supplies from elsewhere.
Ministers have also commissioned a new study to examine safety concerns about fracking, which polls have shown is deeply unpopular with the public.
#176
Retaining control of its electricity assets has given Queensland an edge over other regions in coordinating and funding the race to decarbonise the economy, the state's energy minister, Mick de Brenni, says.
Queensland last month unveiled a $62bn plan to rid its power grid of coal by 2036, replacing the generation with 25GW of large-scale wind and solar farms, new transmission lines and two giant pumped hydro plants for storage.
With its dominant ownership position of electricity generation and distribution assets, the government has been able to offset the impact of higher energy prices following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Rebates of $175 a household will this year total $385m "that would otherwise have gone to overseas shareholders", de Brenni said.
"We should expect there to be some continued elevation of wholesale electricity prices, that's likely to flow through to retail bills," he said, adding Queensland could shield households "in a way that no other state on the east coast can".
De Brenni said public ownership of the energy system allowed the state to ensure new large-scale generation, transmission, and storage infrastructure could be built in time, potentially ahead of when ordinary market signals would allow.
"Because Queenslanders chose to keep energy assets in public hands, we have unprecedented control to guide the transformation of our energy system," he said.
"We're going to deploy those natural advantages that Queensland has to make sure that at all times the lights stay on and power remains affordable."
The introduction in June of three new tiers for mining royalties to bolster state coffers has also helped pay for the energy transition, de Brenni said.
New South Wales, which has a similar mix of coal for domestic use and export in its economy, has so far resisted lifting its royalty rates to collect a higher share of the record profits being garnered by miners. Queensland's resources sector, which complained it wasn't consulted on the changes, has estimated the impost would collect an extra $15bn this financial year alone.
"Queenslanders have a right to be rewarded when their resources are attracting incredibly high profits on global markets," de Brenni said.
"We've been able to utilise some of those coal royalties in terms of supporting our transition to renewable energy. So high coal royalties in Queensland equal cleaner energy in Queensland."
Despite criticism from miners, de Brenni said "citizens the world over want to see more investment by governments into the transition". "Citizens would welcome the deployment of those returns to addressing climate change."
The transformation of the energy sector won't come cheap and will likely add costs to power bills across Australia in the near term to pay for new capacity and transmission. But the near zero cost of generating renewable energy should bring down power prices, analysts say.
Queensland has been the clean energy laggard among Australian states, with just under 20% of electricity generated last year sourced from renewables. Nationally, the average was almost one-third.
The head of the Victoria Energy Policy Centre, Bruce Mountain, said Queensland's ownership of electricity assets would ease coordination issues, although the state's vested interest might explain why its transition away from fossil fuels lagged most other states to date.
"Fossil fuel resources are horribly undertaxed in Australia," Mountain said. "The Queensland government's policy to tax a 'bad' to fund a 'good' is excellent policy that other states should emulate."
But Mountain did query the government's plan for pumped hydro, which includes spending $270m to advance the Borumba and Pioneer-Burdekin sites to supply as much as 7GW of storage. Pioneer-Burdekin alone would be 5GW, or 2.5 times the size of Snowy Hydro's 2.0 project, and the largest in the world.
"I think there is a reason that pumped hydro gets so little attention internationally," he said. "To the government's credit it is funding proper studies and no doubt Queenslanders will be seeking a good reason if [it] does commit huge capital" to the projects, he said.
#177
The European Commission has been accused of undermining its climate goals after it defied critics by pushing ahead with plans to include gas and nuclear in an EU guidebook for "green" investments.
Gas and nuclear were deemed bridge technologies to meet the EU's target of net zero emissions by 2050, in long-awaited proposals on the EU's "taxonomy for environmentally sustainable economic activities", which were published on Wednesday.
"The reason we are including gas and nuclear in the way we are doing it is because we firmly believe that this recognises the need for these energy sources in transition," the EU commissioner for financial services, Mairead McGuinness, told reporters.
Critics said including gas and nuclear in a guide intended to prevent greenwashing jeopardised the EU's climate goals and hopes of keeping global heating below 1.5C.
"The European Commission is significantly undermining the EU's credibility as a climate actor," Bas Eickhout, a Dutch Green MEP and vice-chair of the European parliament's environment committee, said. "At the UN climate summit in Glasgow, small steps were taken towards phasing out fossil fuels. Yet, unfortunately, the commission is already turning back the clock and leaving the door open to the gas industry."
Laurence Tubiana, the chief executive of the European Climate Foundation and an architect of the landmark 2015 Paris climate agreement, said: "The EU taxonomy was envisioned as a vital tool to align financial flows with the Paris agreement. Instead, Europe is undermining its climate leadership and lowering standards in the EU and beyond. When a gold standard does emerge elsewhere, this taxonomy will be left behind."
Since the proposals leaked on New Year's Eve 2021 - fuelling bitter accusations of a lack of transparency - the commission has made minor tweaks that make it easier for gas projects to get in the green guidebook.
Gas plants can get the stamp of approval if they switch to low-carbon gases or renewables by 2035. A previous requirement to phase-in low-carbon fuels by 2026 has been dropped.
The taxonomy - intended to channel billions of private money into climate-friendly investments - is fast becoming one of the biggest controversies of Ursula von der Leyen's tenure as European Commission president. Last month Greta Thunberg and climate activists slammed the plans as "fake climate action" that flout scientific advice.
In a further sign of anger, campaign group Avaaz staged a mock burial of the taxonomy on a roundabout outside the commission headquarters, with activists wearing face masks of Von der Leyen, Germany's Olaf Scholz and France's Emmanuel Macron. France pressured Von der Leyen to grant the stamp of approval for nuclear power, while Germany had lobbied for the inclusion of gas, although Scholz's coalition government is split on the issue.
"Europe is witnessing our biggest setback yet in our moonshot mission," said Patricia Martín Díaz of Avaaz. "Labelling fossil gas and nuclear as green is incompatible with the EU's 2050 climate targets and our hope of keeping 1.5C alive."
The Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change, which represents 375 funds holding €51tn assets under management, also urged the commission to drop gas, citing International Energy Agency studies that show Europe's existing gas plants will have to close by 2035. ?? "Put simply, there is no remaining carbon budget for new investments in natural gas," the group said.

Other critics include an expert panel convened by the commission, which said the plans were "not in line" with the original regulation, agreed in July 2020. In its stinging rebuke, the EU platform on sustainable finance - a group that includes industry, NGO and finance experts from EU institutions - said they had doubts about the criteria for gas and nuclear, while "many are deeply concerned about the environmental impacts that may result".
The group said only gas plants emitting less than 100 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt hour over their lifecycle should be allowed, a criteria that excludes conventional gas. In contrast, the commission would allow gas plants emitting 270g CO2e/kWh to be classed as "sustainable" until 2030. A second alternative would allow gas plants that emit an average of 550g CO2 e/kWh over a twenty-year lifespan. Critics describe this as loophole that allows new gas plants to be built on a promise of carbon capture technology that is yet to take off.
The EU taxonomy became law in July 2020, but legislators left important details to be resolved through so-called delegated acts - secondary legislation meant for technical issues that is not subject to the same degree of ministerial and parliamentary oversight.
Critics have accused the commission of abusing the process, by smuggling in the controversial issues of nuclear and gas into the latest delegated act, rather than drafting a separate law.
Only a supermajority of 20 out of 27 EU member states, or a majority of the European parliament's 705 MEPs can now defeat the plans during a scrutiny period of four to six months that began on Wednesday.
Commission officials played down the threat of a legal challenge from Austria and Luxembourg, describing it as "a very theoretical discussion". Both countries oppose nuclear power, while Green ministers in the German coalition government have dismissed the plans as greenwashing.
Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands had urged the commission not to label gas as green, while Germany declared its opposition to nuclear.
Yet France, backed by central and eastern European member states, lobbied Von der Leyen to include gas and nuclear, which they consider as a bridge to the EU's net zero future.
The largest group in the European parliament, the European People's party has come out in favour of gas, underscoring the difficulties of defeating the plans. "Flexibility is needed in the way we decarbonise. If, for example, Poland would like to replace a coal plant with several small gas plants, this should be possible if it helps achieve climate neutrality", Esther de Lange, a Dutch Christian Democrat, said.
Lisa Fischer, who leads the E3G thinktank's work on climate neutral energy systems, said gas and nuclear had no place in the taxonomy. "Gas investments are not only harmful to the climate they are also increasingly financially risky. Nuclear makes the EU's energy transition more costly than it needs to be."
In a sign of the intense arguments, McGuinness revealed that had been no unanimity among the commission's top 27 officials; she said an "overwhelming majority" of EU commissioners had backed the plans.
"We were legally obliged to do this," she said referring back to the initial July 2020 law. Opponents in national capitals, however, say the commission had no obligation to include gas or nuclear.
#178
More than 100,000 people have pledged to cancel their direct debits for gas and electricity from October in protest against rocketing energy prices, according to a campaign group.
Don't Pay UK, which launched in June this year, said its campaign had reached "millions of people" and the support received so far "demonstrates the anger and frustration at a broken energy system that needs to be drastically transformed for the interests of people".
"In just a few weeks, over 100,000 of us from across the country have come together to say we will refuse to be pushed into fuel poverty and we no longer want to pay for the profits of the energy companies," it said.
"We are building the biggest mass non-payment campaign since the Poll Tax and we are showing the powers that be that our collective power will force an end to this crisis."
Don't Pay UK, which is run by a group of activists operating anonymously, said that in addition to the 100,000 pledges, more than 31,000 people have signed up as activists in their communities and 3,000 have joined 150 Don't Pay groups across the country.
The announcement comes as annual bills for a typical household are forecast to top £4,200 from January amid the biggest cost of living crisis in Britain for decades.
Don't Pay UK said it would only take action if one million people signed up to the mass non-payment of energy bills by 1 October and the government failed to "adequately address the crisis".
Despite the momentum building for the movement, charities have warned that not paying energy bills could lead to serious consequences, including harming an individual's credit score.
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST
This week the consumer champion Martin Lewis described soaring energy bills as "a national crisis" on the scale of the Covid pandemic and the former prime minister, Gordon Brown, writing in the Guardian, called for energy companies that cannot offer lower bills to be temporarily brought back into public ownership.
On Thursday, Boris Johnson, the chancellor, Nadhim Zahawi, and business secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, met with energy company bosses to discuss the situation.
Johnson appealed to the electricity companies to help ease the cost of living pressures, but added that any "significant fiscal decisions" would be for whoever succeeds him next month to take.
The Treasury said Zahawi and the energy firms agreed to "work closely" over the coming weeks to ensure the public, including vulnerable customers, were supported in the face of rising costs, but did not elaborate on what that would entail.
#179
Energy efficiency measures have already saved the average British household about £1,000 a year in energy bills, and further insulation and home improvements could halve future bills, analysis has shown.
But the future savings are unlikely to be realised unless the government focuses swiftly on insulation, as the savings to date have come largely from efficiency improvements in electrical appliances and boilers, which will not be repeated.
The energy price cap is forecast to rise to £2,000 for a typical household in April, owing to the gas crisis, from about £1,300 today. But average household energy bills would be £3,000 a year if it were not for a range of regulatory measures that have brought down energy use in the last two decades, according to the Regulatory Assistance Project (RAP), an analyst organisation.
Jan Rosenow, director of European programmes at RAP, said the analysis showed the failures of the government in the past decade to take action that would have staved off much of the current energy price crisis. "If the government had acted, we could have had a properly funded programme that would have reduced greenhouse gases and energy bills," he said. 

Electrical appliances such as lightbulbs, fridges and washing machines now use much less power than 20 years ago, owing to EU directives. A 2005 UK government regulation mandating the use of condensing boilers has brought down average gas use significantly.
Energy consumption overall has declined by 16% since 2000 despite a 15% increase in the number of homes, the average home being 10% larger and the rise in appliance ownership, the RAP said.
Insulation, double glazing and similar home upgrades have also somewhat reduced energy use, Rosenow said, but by far less than could have been possible, as the UK has fallen behind on such improvements. Insulation rates have plummeted in the past decade, after successive government schemes have been scrapped and not replaced.
At least 14m households have missed out on insulation because of the abandonment of the green deal scheme, which was set up in 2013 and stopped in 2015, with only about 15,000 homes upgraded. A further 47,500 were improved in the most recent successor scheme, the green homes grant, instead of the 600,000 promised, when the scheme was scrapped after only six months.
The "stop-start" nature of the government's insulation efforts has also stifled the growth of the insulation industry, which requires skilled workers and a broad network of suppliers, Rosenow added. Thousands of jobs have been lost in the industry over the past decade.
The RAP analysis suggested it would be a mistake to cut the energy company obligation (ECO), which the government is considering. The £1bn a year programme, the cost of which is added to energy bills, channels funding to insulation for people on low incomes. Cutting ECO "would slow down the much-needed transformation of our housing stock and leave more people exposed to rising energy prices in the future", RAP said.
The RAP findings tally with separate estimates from Carbon Brief that cutting insulation programmes in the past 10 years has added about £1bn a year to the UK's energy bills.
Rosenow said the failure to keep up consistent action on insulation was a massive missed opportunity, but that action now could still reduce bills in future years. Some analysts have forecast high gas prices for at least the next two years, as the world recovers from the coronavirus pandemic and economic shocks.
"Gas boilers are now about as efficient as they can be. The big area for improvement is insulation," said Rosenow. "You can't get to net zero without insulation. It's impossible, it would be far too expensive and impractical."
Some Conservative MPs and rightwing commentators have argued that the net zero target should be reconsidered in light of the energy crisis, and have called for more oil and gas exploration. However, analysts have shown that renewable power has reduced the cost of electricity generation, and that overreliance on gas is the leading cause of high prices.
"Green" Tories have also stepped up their defence of the net zero targets in recent days. Alok Sharma, president of the Cop26 climate summit, in a speech to the Chatham House thinktank said: "Clean is competitive, and the global race to supply the technologies and solutions a net zero world needs is on. The train is pulling out of the station and countries and companies that want to remain competitive need to leap on now."
Grant Shapps, the transport secretary, told the Bright Blue thinktank: "People who are sceptical about net zero worry that it's going to add to the cost of energy bills ... [But] this is all about taking a lead, jobs and exports. We can steal a march on the world by learning how to decarbonise. For decarbonisation, we want to be the pilots, not the passengers."
A government spokesperson said: "We welcome this research and have always said energy efficiency is key to cutting bills. That's why we are investing over £6.6bn to decarbonise homes and buildings, and bringing in higher minimum performance standards to help reduce energy bills and tackle climate change.
"Government plans for the energy company obligation include increasing the value of the scheme to £1bn per annum and extending it from 2022 to 2026, as set out in our fuel poverty strategy."
#180
The number of jobs being created in the renewable energy industry is growing four times faster than the overall UK employment market, it has emerged.
Data shows that 2.2% of all new UK jobs have been classified as "green", although concerns are rising over London's dominance in the sector.
The number of green jobs advertised has almost trebled in the last year, equating to 336,000 roles, according to the second edition of consultancy PwC's annual green jobs barometer.
However, more than one-third of these roles are based in London and the south-east, particularly in professional and scientific roles.
Scotland, which dominates the UK's onshore and offshore wind market, has the highest proportion of green jobs, at 3.3%, up from 1.7% last year.
In England, where a moratorium on new onshore wind projects in England is nearing an end, London recorded the second strongest increase in green jobs as a proportion of its job market. PwC said that, by volume of jobs, London and the south-east were "pulling away from the rest of the country".
In Wales, where progress is being made in developing solar and tidal power, there was a 150% increase in the number of green jobs advertised, with strong demand for green roles in manufacturing, construction and professional services.
Yorkshire and the Humber, as well as Northern Ireland, slipped down the rankings with each having a green jobs proportion of 1.9% - though both have improved from 1.2% last year.
In every region of the UK, green jobs accounted for a greater share of the job market than in previous years, and the number of green jobs more than doubled in the year to June 2022.
Carl Sizer, PwC UK's head of regions, said: "While Wales and Scotland are among the top performers, it's striking that one in five new green roles are based in the capital.
"If growth continues on this trajectory, the compounding effect means the green economy will increase London's dominance over other cities and regions. If we want to meet our net zero ambitions while driving growth, then the green economy needs to be nationwide."
Industry executives have expressed concerns that, although the case for renewables has been underlined by high prices and energy security worries since the invasion of Ukraine, developers face significant hurdles in getting projects off the ground.
The government has faced criticism for not moving quickly enough on green energy and helping to create jobs in the sector. Labour has vowed to create thousands of jobs in renewable energy and launch a publicly owned energy company.
In May, the government said its newly formed Green Jobs Delivery Group would aim to support the delivery of "up to 480,000 skilled green jobs" by 2030. By that point ministers hope 95% of electricity will be low carbon and £100bn of private investment can be unlocked.
Graham Stuart, the energy and climate minister, said: "Today's report shows how public and private investment in new renewables and tackling climate change is creating growth and job opportunities across the country.
"These new green jobs are part of a growing industry which will be crucial for the future net zero economy, but we need to make sure all parts of the country benefit, as we continue to level up opportunities."
Ed Miliband, the shadow climate change secretary, said: "This report is further proof that Britain's best days can lie ahead of us, if only we grasp the enormous opportunities for jobs and wealth that the green transition can bring.
"But in the way that green jobs are being created, it is also a warning that the government is not taking the action to ensure that all regions benefit.
"The truth is that we have a government that isn't stepping up to shape and accelerate the green transition so we create good jobs in every corner of Britain."
#181

The Albanese government will scrap changes to the Australian Renewable Energy Agency introduced in the dying days of the Morrison government that would have allowed it to fund some fossil fuel developments.
The climate change minister, Chris Bowen, will release a new set of regulations on Friday that he said would ensure Arena was focused on funding renewable energy and technology that supported it.
He said it would include a mandate for the agency to work with industry to accelerate electrification - moving from gas to running increasingly on renewable energy - and boost energy efficiency.
It came as negotiations continued between Bowen and crossbench MPs on Thursday over a separate climate change bill that includes Labor's target of a 43% cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, compared with 2005 levels.
The Greens leader, Adam Bandt, said he was disappointed that Anthony Albanese had reportedly told News Corp that banning new Australian coal and gas mines would lead to an increase in global emissions, not decrease them.
Albanese suggested that a moratorium, as proposed by the Greens, would result in more fossil fuels being exported from countries that had "less clean" resources than Australia. He said Labor's policy remained that fossil fuel exporters in Australia should not face more onerous laws than overseas competitors.
Bandt said the prime minister had used the same "pro-coal talking points" employed by his predecessor, Scott Morrison, who Labor repeatedly accused of not taking the climate crisis seriously.
He said just as Labor would not leave aged care standards or minimum wages to the market, the government should be willing to intervene on fossil fuels, and not leave "the very future of humanity in the hands of coal and gas corporations".
"Every tonne of coal burned harms Australia and makes the climate crisis worse," Bandt said. "The world's scientists, the UN secretary general, our Pacific Island neighbours and the International Energy Agency have all said that there can be no new coal and gas projects if we're to prevent catastrophic climate change."
The recasting of the rules governing Arena follows the previous emissions reduction minister, Angus Taylor, making a last-minute change before Morrison called the May federal election.
Taylor's change was to allow the agency to fund a broader range of technology in line with the Coalition's low-emissions technology roadmap. They included developments that used carbon capture and storage, such as "blue hydrogen" made with gas.
It was the third time the Coalition had tried to change Arena's mandate. The previous two were blocked in the Senate after Labor, Greens and some crossbenchers argued a renewable energy agency should not fund fossil fuels.
Bowen said on Thursday that Labor wanted Arena focused on supporting renewable and related technology to help increase the share of renewable energy generation to 82% by 2030. It currently provides about 33% of the east coast grid's electricity.
"The best way to put downward pressure on energy prices is to ramp up investment in renewables and that is exactly what we are doing," Bowen said.
He said the new Arena rules would let it support food manufacturing and mining companies phasing out fossil fuel technologies and back new infrastructure such as electric vehicle chargers.
The chief executive of the Clean Energy Council, Kane Thornton, said reversing the Coalition's "dilution" of Arena was an important step to "restore the integrity of Australia's most critically important renewable energy agency".
Bowen met again with independent MPs on Thursday to discuss Labor's climate bill ahead of parliament opening next week. 
Guardian Australia understands the minister signalled he was prepared to strengthen the legislation by including language that would increase transparency and accountability around advice the government received from the Climate Change Authority.
Under the legislation, the authority would be required to provide regular advice on progress in meeting Australia's emissions reduction targets. Some independents want more clarity about what advice the minister will seek, and have requested that he provide a detailed explanation to parliament if the government deviates from the expert advice.
Independents have argued for a ratchet mechanism in the bill to ensure that Labor's 43% emissions target could be increased over time. Bowen tried to convince crossbenchers that the legislation already contains a ratchet mechanism because it is linked to the Paris climate agreement, which requires countries to increase their targets every five years.
Bowen indicated he would take a revised proposal to caucus next week ahead of the introduction of the legislation.
Labor has the numbers to pass the legislation in the House of Representatives, but will need the support of the Greens and ACT independent David Pocock in the Senate.
The Greens support a 75% cut in emissions by 2030, pointing to scientific advice that a 43% cut is not enough for Australia to play its part in meeting the goals of the Paris agreement. But Bandt has said the party is open to supporting the legislation if Labor is prepared to make changes to other parts of the bill.
#182
Campaigners have urged governments to intervene after oil companies were accused of misleading the public about their commitment to reducing carbon emissions.
Oil and gas companies including Britain's Shell and BP were urged to "stop their deception" this week as the US House committee on oversight and reform released documents showing that oil industry executives privately downplayed their public messages on efforts to tackle the climate crisis.
The memo claimed that internal BP documents highlighted how carbon capture and storage (CCS) - a nascent technology that involves inserting CO2 emissions into underground rock formations - could "enable the full use of fossil fuels across the energy transition and beyond".

Congressional investigators also unearthed an internal Shell email discussing carbon capture, utilisation, and storage (CCUS) in which an executive said: "We want to be careful to not talk about CCUS as prolonging the life of oil, gas or fossil fuels writ large."
The committee said internal Shell messaging guidance - developed to "insulate Shell" from lawsuits about "greenwashing" and "misleading investors" on the climate crisis - calls on employees to emphasise that net zero emissions is "a collective ambition for the world" rather than a "Shell goal or target".
The guidance tells employees: "Please do not give the impression that Shell is willing to reduce carbon dioxide emissions to levels that do not make business sense."
In separate documents, the oil companies Exxon and Chevron appeared to ask the industry-led Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) to "remove language that potentially commits members to enhanced climate-related governance, strategy, risk management, and performance metrics and targets" and to avoid any "explicit commitment for OGCI companies to align their advocacy with their climate related positions" - including advocacy for the 2015 Paris agreement.
Climate campaigners and some investors have pushed energy companies to commit to more ambitious emissions reduction targets. The activist investor Follow This has tabled resolutions at shareholder meetings in an attempt to get companies to agree to targets in line with the Paris accord.
Shell lost a landmark ruling in the Dutch courts last year, when a judge ordered it to cut its global carbon emissions by 45% by the end of 2030 compared with 2019 levels. Campaigners hope the incoming chief executive, Wael Sawan, whose appointment was announced on Thursday, can increase the company's investment in green energy.
The committee said that, after Shell posted on Twitter asking others what they would do to reduce emissions, a communications executive wrote privately that he agreed this could be seen as "gaslighting" the public. "We are, after all, in a tweet like this implying others need to sacrifice without focusing on ourselves," he said.
Carolyn Maloney, the chair of the House committee on oversight and reform, said: "As we face more deadly, extreme weather around the globe, fossil fuel companies are reaping record profits and ramping up their misleading PR tactics to distract from their central role in fuelling the climate crisis.
"My committee's investigation leaves no doubt that, in the words of one company official, big oil is 'gaslighting' the public. These companies claim they are part of the solution to climate change, but internal documents reveal that they are continuing with business as usual. I call on the big fossil fuel companies to stop their deception and cut their emissions now - before it is too late."
Jamie Peters, a campaigner at Friends of the Earth, said: "Big oil firms like Shell, Exxon and Chevron can try to gloss over their murky PR image as much as they like, as we've seen in the millions of dollars pumped into disingenuous greenwash campaigns by the industry. But though unsurprising, this bombshell disclosure confirms what remains utterly transparent about big oil. That it has every intention to keep on extracting in pursuit of profit, rather than transforming how it operates for the sake of our communities and our planet.

"Millions are already experiencing dangerous climate breakdown in extreme heatwaves and devastating floods, like those in Pakistan, as the world's biggest polluters continue to shirk their responsibilities. They'll continue to act only in the interests of their shareholders unless governments intervene."
The Guardian revealed last month that BP has spent more than £800,000 on social media influence ads in the UK this year that champion the company's investments in green energy.
A Shell spokesperson said: "Of the nearly 500,000 pages provided to the committee, the small handful they chose to highlight are evidence of Shell's extensive efforts to set aggressive targets, evolve its portfolio and meaningfully participate in the ongoing energy transition."
An Exxon spokesperson said: "We have supported the Paris agreement from its start in 2015 and continue to support the US government's participation in the framework. The selective publication of dated emails, without context, is a deliberate attempt to generate a narrative that does not reflect the commitment of ExxonMobil - and its employees, to address climate change and play a leading role in the transition to a net zero future."
BP told Bloomberg it has set near-term targets consistent with its ambition to become a net zero company by 2050.
Chevron has been contacted for comment.
#183
Renewable energy generation hit a new record on Friday, briefly contributing more than two-thirds of the power in Australia's main grid.
According to the Australian Energy Market Operator (Aemo), the milestone was set at 12.30pm, with a contribution of 68.7%, or 18,882MW, from renewable sources.
The figure is 4.6 percentage points higher than the previous record, which was set on 18 September.
Of total power in the grid on Friday, 34% came from distributed solar, which outstripped black coal's contribution of 22%.
Renewable penetration rates are measured in 30-minute intervals, and illustrate contributions to the grid within a short period of time.
"It's very different to 100% renewables 24/7," said Alison Reeve, climate change and energy deputy program director at the Grattan Institute. "Nevertheless, it does show how much the grid is changing."
"Five years ago the maximum that we'd managed to get to was 30%, and five years before that, I don't know that anyone was even measuring [renewables], it was so small."
One challenge of the energy transition was managing fluctuating contributions from renewable sources, Reeve said. "Once the solar has dropped out [at night], the percentage that you need to ramp up your non-renewables up to is a lot higher," she said.
"One of the things that is gradually driving particularly coal-fired power plants out of the market at the moment is that they can't ramp up and down that quickly ... they're not good at switching on and off over a couple of hour periods."
Gas and hydro generators are more responsive at short timescales. Because of high gas prices currently, "when those gas generators come on they set quite a high price in the electricity market," Reeve said.
Hydro generators have recently been limited in their operation because of the wet weather on the east coast of Australia, she added. "They can't send too much water down the river because they don't want to make any flooding worse," she said.

Another challenge was replacing the "system's stability" that coal and gas provide to the electricity grid - the ability to drop and raise generation slightly in order to "keep the voltage in the grid balanced", Reeve said, which will require more long-duration storage infrastructure such as batteries.
"Until we figure out a way to get that balancing role done by other things like pumped hydro and batteries, and we have enough of those in the system, there will be a natural upper limit on how much renewables penetration we have, particularly once you move beyond the instantaneous ... and start to talk about what we can sustain over four or eight hours."
Reeve described these as "solvable problems", but which required ironing out of details including costs, storage location and how the services would be valued.
A July report by the International Renewable Energy Agency (Irena) found Australia was now among the world leaders in cheap solar energy.
Behind China and India, in 2021 Australia had the third-lowest utility-scale solar cost in the world, of $0.042 USD/kWh (AU$0.065). This represented a 21% year-on-year drop in price.
According to Irena data, the average cost of electricity from utility-scale solar has dropped by 90% in Australia since 2010.
#184

The war in Ukraine will result in expensive food and energy for the next three years, the World Bank has warned, intensifying fears that the global economy is heading for a rerun of the weak growth and high inflation of the 1970s.
In a gloomy analysis, the Washington-based development organisation said there was a risk that persistently high commodity costs lasting until the end of 2024 would lead to stagflation - sluggish activity combined with strong cost of living pressures.
The Bank's latest commodity markets outlook said that over the past two years the world had seen the biggest increase in energy prices since the 1973 oil crisis and the biggest jump in food and fertiliser prices since 2008. While the costs of energy and food were likely to retreat from their current levels, they were forecast still to be above the average for the past five years at the end of 2024.
As a result of trade and production disruptions caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Bank is forecasting a 50% rise in energy prices this year. It expects the price of Brent crude oil to average $100 a barrel in 2022, its highest level since 2013 and an increase of more than 40% compared with 2021. Prices are expected to fall back to $92 in 2023 but will remain well above the five-year average of $60 a barrel.
Sign up to the daily Business Today email or follow Guardian Business on Twitter at @BusinessDesk
European gas prices are expected to be twice as high in 2022 as they were in 2021, while coal prices are expected to be 80% higher. The Bank expects wheat prices to increase more than 40% this year, putting pressure on developing economies that rely on wheat imports from Russia and Ukraine.
Indermit Gill, a World Bank vice-president, said: "Overall, this amounts to the largest commodity shock we've experienced since the 1970s. As was the case then, the shock is being aggravated by a surge in restrictions in trade of food, fuel and fertilisers.
"These developments have started to raise the spectre of stagflation. Policymakers should take every opportunity to increase economic growth at home and avoid actions that will bring harm to the global economy."
#185
Widening power shortages in China's north-east have left homes without power and halted production at numerous factories, while some shops operated by candlelight as the economic toll of the squeeze mounted.
Residents in the north-east, where autumn temperatures are falling, reported power cuts and appealed on social media for the government to restore supplies.
Rationing has been implemented during peak hours since last week, while residents of cities including Changchun said cuts were occurring sooner and lasting for longer, state media reported.
China's power crunch, caused by tight coal supplies and toughening emissions standards, has hurt production in industries across several regions and poses a risk to already strained global supply chains. 
Manufacturers face existing shortages of processor chips, disruptions in shipping and other lingering effects of the global shutdown of travel and trade to fight the coronavirus pandemic.
In the north-east, factories were idled to avoid exceeding limits on energy use imposed by Beijing to promote efficiency. Economists and an environmental group say manufacturers used up this year's quota faster than planned as export demand rebounded from the coronavirus pandemic.
In the city of Liaoyang, 23 people were hospitalised with gas poisoning after ventilation in a metal casting factory was shut off after a power outage, according to state broadcaster CCTV.
The suspension of production at some factories prompted concerns over the possible shortage of goods ahead of Christmas, including smartphones and devices.
Apple components supplier Eson Precision Engineering said on Sunday it would halt production at its factory in Kunshan, west of Shanghai, until Thursday "in line with the local government's power restriction policy."
Eson said the suspension shouldn't have a "significant impact" on operations.
Apple didn't immediately respond to a question from Associated Press about the possible impact on iPhone supplies.
The impact on homes and non-industrial users comes as night-time temperatures slip to near-freezing in China's northernmost cities. The National Energy Administration has told coal and natural gas firms to ensure sufficient energy supplies to keep homes warm during winter.
Liaoning province said power generation had declined significantly since July, and the supply gap widened to a "severe level" last week. It expanded power cuts from industrial firms to residential areas last week.
The city of Huludao told residents not to use high energy-consuming electronics like water heaters and microwave ovens during peak periods, and a resident of Harbin city in Heilongjiang province told Reuters that many shopping malls were closing earlier than usual.
The power squeeze is unnerving Chinese stock markets at a time when the world's second-largest economy is already showing signs of slowing. The Chinese economy is grappling with curbs on the property and tech sectors and concerns around the future of cash-strapped real estate giant China Evergrande.
Stricter emissions standards have in part driven the power shortages.
China has vowed to cut energy intensity by about 3% in 2021 to meet its climate goals. Provincial authorities have also stepped up the enforcement of emissions curbs in recent months after only 10 of 30 mainland regions managed to achieve their energy goals in the first half of the year.
The ruling party also is preparing for the Winter Olympics in Beijing, and the nearby city of Shijiazhuang in February, a period when it will want clear blue skies.
The power pinch has been affecting manufacturers in key industrial hubs on the eastern and southern coasts for weeks.
At least 15 Chinese companies have said in exchange filings that production had been disrupted by power curbs, while more than 30 Taiwan-listed firms with China operations had stopped work to comply with the power limits.
The fallout of the power shortage has prompted some analysts to downgrade their 2021 economic growth outlook for China, and also warned of possible global supply shortages to textiles, toys and machine parts.
#186
Energy bills could rise by as much as 30% next year if gas and electricity prices continue to soar and more suppliers go bust, according to a new report.
The research firm Cornwall Insight is forecasting that the energy price cap, set at a record £1,277 a year from 1 October, is going to have to be significantly boosted in spring 2022 as the energy crisis continues.

The firm expects the energy price cap to be put up by about 30%, to about £1,660, by the industry regulator. Ofgem has said that if gas prices rise, or stay at such elevated levels, it will have to push the price cap up when it is reviewed on 1 April.
"With wholesale gas and electricity prices continuing to reach new records, successive supplier exits during September and a new level for the default tariff cap, the Great British energy market remains on the edge for fresh volatility and further consolidation," said Craig Lowrey, a senior consultant at Cornwall Insight.
Nine suppliers have collapsed in recent weeks after finding themselves unable to maintain price promises in the face of soaring wholesale gas prices. It is predicted that more could follow.
In a separate warning, the founder of the green energy supplier Ecotricity said it "doesn't make sense" to have a retail price cap but not a wholesale one, and accused the government of "killing energy companies right now".
Dale Vince told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "It's illogical to hold prices at one end of the supply chain and not the other end, and the natural consequence is companies going out of business.
"The government currently have closed their eyes and ears to this and said they don't care, they're not going to help energy companies but that kind of misses the point because they're killing energy companies right now."
Vince said nationalisation of the sector should be considered.
#187
The Queensland energy minister, Mick de Brenni, says the state needs to triple its renewable energy generation capacity by 2035 - transforming the energy sector by building some of the world's largest industrial-scale green projects.
De Brenni's speech to the Smart Energy Conference in Brisbane on Wednesday was the first significant insight into the state's future energy blueprint, set for release in the coming months.
The plan is expected to outline the state's emissions reductions commitments and its specific plans to increase renewable energy generation. Queensland has remained steadfast that it will not close coal-fired generators ahead of schedule, but its state-owned energy companies have acknowledged the energy transition requires a shift in focus.
In a pre-recorded speech to the conference, de Brenni said the state's energy plan would seek to deliver cheaper Queensland-made electricity. It would make the state a "global leader" in energy and resources.
"We've done the numbers and by 2035 we will need 25GW of renewable energy generation projects in Queensland. So without going into the specifics, that means Queenslanders will build some of the largest industrial-scale renewable projects in the world."
He flagged investment in "a series of mega pumped-hydroelectric dams in the mountain ranges", distribution networks and green hydrogen.
De Brenni said the state would require "tens of thousands" of personal, community, network and grid-scale batteries and that building more rooftop solar "will be the key to our success".
Most of Queensland's 7GW renewable generation comes from rooftop solar panels. The investment outlined by de Brenni would more than triple Queensland's renewable generation capacity.
It would also mean that, via the construction of new projects, renewables become the dominant source of the state's power. Currently Queensland has a total of 15.5GW of commercial generation, primarily from coal and gas.
"The energy transformation of our state is the biggest opportunity any of us will see," de Brenni said.
"We have to make the most of the challenges before us. The climate legislation and actions on renewable energy taken during the first 100 days of the Albanese government should have happened a decade ago.
"Given we are so far behind as a nation our response has to be one that adapts, capitalises and transforms. We have to take real action on powering our future."
????? ?????
The Queensland Conservation Council says modelling from the Australian Energy Market Operator shows the state could get to 100% renewable energy by 2030 if it built 25GW of large-scale wind and solar, and 7GW of storage.
The QCC, Australian Conservation Foundation and Solar Citizens have been calling for an interim target of 6GW of additional renewables and 1GW of storage by 2025.
The QCC director, Dave Copeman, said Queensland's energy plan needed "a clear timeline" for transitioning publicly-owned power stations to renewables.
"The state can only lock in the future industries if investors and industry know when Queensland will be 100% renewable energy powered," he said.
#188
For months, everyone in government had known that Friday was energy cap day, and at 7am the bad news duly dropped. Phones pinged as the nation woke to Ofgem's confirmation that typical gas and electricity bills were to rise by a frightening 80%.
Millions of people would be unable to cope, said charities. Even those on low or middle earnings who had some savings could see them entirely wiped out. It was a full-on national crisis, albeit long predicted.
Consumer champion Martin Lewis tore around central London giving breathless interview after breathless interview, starting on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme at 7.30am. Lewis appeared on 11 separate outlets before 2pm, raging at government failure to act on his warnings, first issued back in March.
But while Lewis was everywhere, and Labour's shadow ministers piled in unopposed, the government was nowhere. Where, news producers asked, was the energy minister Greg Hands? Or indeed any other minister of the crown? Prime minister Boris Johnson, back from his second summer holiday, or the chancellor for another week at least, Nadhim Zahawi?
Hours earlier Hands, whose responsibilities include energy retail markets, had tweeted that it was "great to visit Los Alamos National Laboratory, here in New Mexico," where he had been holding "useful discussions" on nuclear fusion.
When asked, mid-morning, if Hands was back at his desk, officials at the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy seemed at first not to know. Then they said he was travelling to Indonesia for a G20 meeting. This despite the fact that he had been spotted late morning in his department office between flights, clearly with no time at all to entertain any media bids.
With the government absent, the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (JRF) released its own analysis showing that energy bills would outstrip many people's incomes to the point where paying them would become "fantasy". It was, the JRF made clear, terrifying.
"In all my years, I haven't double-checked a piece of analysis as much as this one because it is so staggering, it feels incorrect," said Peter Matejic, the foundation's chief analyst.
"It is impossible to think a care worker or a shop assistant will have to scramble to find hundreds more pounds to pay for their heating or that the entirety of someone's income for a whole year will be less than their energy bill. But that's what these figures suggest will be the case unless significant further steps are taken quickly."
The growing sense of national anxiety that Matejic shared with millions will not, however, be addressed or eased for some time yet by anyone running the country. There are still eight days to go before the name of the next prime minister is announced. Then, once Liz Truss or Rishi Sunak is in No 10, the date for an emergency budget has to be set, options discussed, and eventually, choices made.
Friday morning's events added to a growing sense that the six-week Tory leadership contest has not only left a vacuum at the heart of power, but that it has taken place in a world some distance from reality.
Not only has the search for a new Conservative leader and PM left government effectively suspended (at the start the cabinet agreed not to make any big financial decisions until it was over, despite the cost of living crisis) but the desire of the candidates to play to what they believe are the views of the tiny Tory "selectorate", has made pragmatic policy formation impossible.
Truss, the hot favourite, has spent weeks locking herself into potentially inflationary commitments to tax cuts, at the same time pledging to avoid "handouts" which everyone now knows are inevitable if those most in need are to get the help they need with their energy bills.
Both candidates have also leaned away from green solutions to the energy crisis. At several hustings Truss has won applause from Tory members by dismissing solar power.
But reality is closing in. Economists and MPs see danger and say something will have to give. Paul Johnson, director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies, said Truss would have to swerve away from some of what of what she had being saying.
He said: "She is bound to have to do substantial handouts and she is committed to substantial tax cuts. That is clearly going to be many tens of billions of additional borrowing, which will pose risks for the long-term stability of the public finances and potentially for the short-term outlook for inflation or interest rates."
All governments are struggling to find solutions. But there is a sense of urgent engagement in the EU that has been lacking in the UK. European governments are scrambling to find ways to protect households and businesses and the Czech Republic, which holds the EU's rotating presidency, is weighing calling an emergency energy summit to discuss bloc-wide price caps.
Many countries have already taken action. Spain has capped gas prices for a year, halved VAT on energy bills and slashed another tax on electricity to 0.5%, and is taxing energy companies more, transferring the money to needy customers.
Italy this month approved a new energy aid package worth €17bn, on top of €35bn earmarked since January for cost of living subsidies, and also aims to tax companies profiting from higher energy prices. Low-income earners are getting a €200 extra payout.
France has forced the state-owned electricity utility EDF to limit wholesale price rises to 4% for a year and cut its tax on electricity consumption from €22.50 per megawatt hour to €1 for households and €0.50 for businesses. Further individual help is being decided.
Germany enacted several energy-saving measures last week: temperatures in public buildings will be limited to 19C from September and heating turned off in common areas such as corridors. The private sector is being encouraged to follow suit.
In the last two days Truss has indicated she will provide help as and when it is needed, but it will require a U-turn before she even becomes PM. David Gauke, the former Tory Treasury minister, said he believed she would have to announce some tax cuts to save face, but that these would provide nowhere near enough help.
In effect he thinks that after six weeks of saying one thing she will have to do another, raising more questions about Tory leadership contests at times of crisis.
"She is trying at the moment to present what she is going to do as very Conservative, whereas I suspect what she will end up doing is something that has a very substantial interventionist, handout measure at its heart, which is not the kind of politics she wants to do but I cannot see she has any choice."
#189
Ministers have been warned that energy bills will cost more than two months' wages next year unless new help is given to households, as the chancellor, Nadhim Zahawi, told firms they must invest their "extraordinary" profits or face the threat of further taxation.
The TUC ramped up calls for the government to cancel the October energy price cap rise, saying the cost of living crisis this winter was an "emergency of pandemic scale".
It also urged trade union and business leaders to help the government find solutions, as they did when devising the furlough scheme.
The monthly take-home pay for the average worker will be £2,054 next year, based on Bank of England forecasts, while the annual cost of energy is predicted to be £4,200.
Treasury officials are working on a number of options for the next prime minister, which could include extending the windfall tax on oil and gas companies announced by Rishi Sunak earlier this year to electricity generation.
However, the frontrunner to become the next prime minister, Liz Truss, has made it clear it is not a path she intends to go down.
The Tory leadership candidates again clashed bitterly over economic policy at Thursday night's hustings event in Cheltenham, with Sunak saying Truss's tax cut-based approach to the energy crisis risks putting millions of Britons in "real destitution".
New analysis by the Tony Blair Institute also laid bare how the help offered so far by the candidates was unlikely to make a dent in the rises.
Truss's plan to reverse the recent increase in national insurance contribution would save households on the lowest incomes an average of just 76p a month, it found. But it would leave the UK's richest households better off by £93 a month.
In an article for the Times, Sunak said he was prepared to find up to £10bn to help households this winter. But the TBI said Sunak's plan to cut VAT on fuel would only amount to a saving of around £14 a month for the typical household.
Boris Johnson made a surprise appearance at Thursday's energy roundtable with electricity firms to underline that the government is monitoring how they use their bumper profits.
A Treasury source said Zahawi had underlined that "everything is on the table, and all the options will be taken very seriously to make sure the next prime minister has them at their disposal and can move quickly".
The source said there was "no getting away from the fact that they are hugely significant profits and also profits that haven't been achieved as a result of canny business acumen".
The chancellor told firms including Centrica, Scottish Power and EDF that the impact of families not being able to pay their bills "isn't just the government's problem". He said firms would also bear the brunt of that, and it was "in their interest to reach for solutions". A source who attended the meeting said it had been widely understood by the energy bosses present.
Kwasi Kwarteng, the business secretary, also at the talks, is sceptical of further windfall taxation and has been tipped as the future chancellor. An industry source said it was "clear the windfall tax is not a preferred option for anyone - ministers or electricity companies".
The short-notice attendance of the PM at the scheduled meeting raised some eyebrows in Whitehall, with one source hinting it was a PR exercise. They added there was little the long-scheduled meeting could agree within the constitutional boundaries of a departing prime minister not making major fiscal decisions.
Key figures criticised the government for not acting immediately, including MoneySavingExpert's Martin Lewis and the former prime minister Gordon Brown.
Those attending the meeting included Chris O'Shea, the chief executive of the British Gas owner, Centrica, Keith Anderson, the chief executive of Scottish Power, and Simone Rossi, the boss of EDF Energy in the UK. 
he Treasury said all the ministers stressed the need to find new ways to help vulnerable customers. The crunch talks came with new predictions that Ofgem could raise the energy price cap to £5,038 next April.
Johnson, Zahawi and Kwarteng also urged the companies to use their bumper profits to invest more in North Sea oil and gas and in renewable energy sources such as biomass.
The TUC said the government should cover the costs of the £1,500 increase for households - a move estimated to cost £38.5bn - but said the government should then take the energy firms into public ownership, requiring new pricing structures.
Also on Thursday, Labour said it would eliminate a "premium" which see people with energy prepayment meters - who are often on low incomes - are charged more than direct debits.
About 4 million domestic customers use prepayment meters, while their price cap is around 2% higher than for direct debit customers, according to figures from Ofgem.
Rachel Reeves, the shadow chancellor, said: "It's outrageous that people on prepayment meters have to pay more for their energy. Why should those with the least have to pay more to heat their homes and put the lights on? This is unjustifiable and morally wrong."
The announcement is the first strand of what the party has promised will be a "fuller package" on the energy crisis Reeves has been working on with Keir Starmer and which will be rolled out in the coming days.
#190
Record levels of renewable energy drove down electricity prices across Australia in the September quarter, with prices zero or negative for one-sixth of the time, the Australian Energy Market Operator has said in its latest report.
There was also little sign of the Morrison government's much-touted "gas-led recovery", with a supply disruption at Victoria's Longford gas plant initially leading to record or near-record spot prices for the fossil fuel in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne. Gas's share of the power mix also slumped one-fifth from a year earlier for the quarter as a whole.
By August the arrival of milder weather and ongoing weak electricity demand caused by Covid-related lockdowns in Victoria and New South Wales sent gas and electricity prices plunging, Aemo said.
For the quarter, electricity from wind, solar and hydro plants supplied almost a third of demand in the national electricity market, at a record 31.7%. For one 30-minute period on 24 September, renewables met 61.4% of demand - also a fresh high.
The share of black coal in the electricity mix fell below half for the first time for a September quarter, while the share of gas also retreated from a year earlier.
The electricity industry has been decarbonising much faster than other parts of the economy. While still contributing about one-third of Australia's carbon emissions, the power sector has been the main reason Australia's Paris agreement climate pledge to cut 2005-level emissions by 26% to 28% for 2030 is likely to be exceeded.
Aemo's chief markets officer, Violette Mouchaileh, said power prices in the mainland section of the national electricity market - serving about three-quarters of Australia's population - averaged $111 a megawatt hour in July before sinking to an average $37MWh by September.
"This trend of falling prices through the quarter was in sharp contrast to international energy prices for LNG and coal which continued to rise throughout the quarter reaching record levels," she said.
The spread of solar panels on rooftops and the addition of new solar and windfarms to the grid meant spot power prices were often zero during the middle of the day, and regularly lurched into negative territory.
Prices were zero or negative for 16% of all trading intervals during the quarter, more than double the previous share set during the final three months of 2020 at 7%.
"Notably, the occurrence of negative spot prices this quarter was up across the NEM, with records set in all regions including New South Wales where negative prices were previously rare," Aemo said in its accompanying report.
Spring in southern Australia can be stormy, resulting in increased output from windfarms. New wind turbine capacity helped increase the periods of very high renewables output in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. As a result, stints of negative prices increased overnight for those three states in particular.
In Victoria, average spot prices between 10am and 3.30pm fell from an average of $30 a MWh in 2020 to just 1c a MWh during August and September, Aemo said. SA reached average negative prices during that time slot in the March quarter of this year, the first time such an outcome has been seen in the market's history for one region.
Increased rooftop solar use also meant consumers reduced the need to access the grid for power.
"The continued growth in distributed PV pushed minimum operational demand levels to record lows," Mouchaileh said. "In NSW, minimum demand from the grid fell to 4,872MW, the lowest level since [the first quarter of] 2000, while South Australia's minimum demand record fell by 21% to 236MW."
The abundance of renewable energy also meant that at times the grid could not take all the power being generated.
Curtailment of grid-scale wind and solar power reached new highs during the quarter, tripling from 118MW in the June quarter to 351MW in the September quarter.
The story was similar in Western Australia, which operates on a separate grid from the eastern states.
Renewable energy provided a record share of demand during the quarter, including a new high of 70% during one interval on 7 September, Aemo said.
Total WA domestic gas consumption was also down about 5% from a year earlier to 95.3 petajoules.
#191
Ovo Energy is moving to cut a quarter of its entire workforce in an attempt to cut costs amid the growing industry crisis.
The UK's third-biggest supplier of gas and electricity is expected to announce the loss of 1,700 roles out of 6,200 as part of a voluntary redundancy scheme as soon as Thursday. Gas market prices last month reached an all-time high of £4.50 per therm, about nine times higher than this time last year.
Earlier this week the company said it was "embarrassed" after an email was sent out advising customers to keep their heating bills low by "having a cuddle with your pets", eating "hearty bowls of porridge" and "doing a few star jumps".
The redundancy scheme, first reported by Sky News, will be announced alongside a pledge to increase minimum pay across the company to £12 an hour, and to "reshore" all customer-facing jobs to the UK.
It is also understood that Ovo is to open an academy in Glasgow as well as consolidate its sites to three locations in London, Bristol and Glasgow.
Record wholesale price increases for gas and electricity have prompted the government to look into ways of mitigating the effect on the cost of living in Britain.
Campaigners fear fuel poverty could reach its highest level since records began without government intervention, warning that 6 million UK homes may be unable to pay energy bills after a further price hike in spring.
Ovo, which has about 4.5 million UK customers, was set up by Stephen Fitzpatrick in 2009 and was acquired by SSE's retail customer base two years ago.
It is the third-biggest energy firm behind Centrica's British Gas and E.ON Next, the brand combining customers of E.ON and npower. It is also backed by the Japanese industrial group Mitsubishi.
Ovo declined to comment.
#192
Insulating homes in Britain and installing heat pumps could benefit the economy by £7bn a year and create 140,000 new jobs by 2030, research has found.
But the uptake of these energy-saving measures depends heavily on government policy, according to analysis by Cambridge Econometrics, commissioned by Greenpeace.
Currently, ministers have little planned to encourage households to take up home insulation, though the chancellor, Kwasi Kwarteng, is expected to make a major announcement on the economy and energy crisis on Friday.
Through the boiler upgrade scheme, the government offers households up to £5,000 towards a heat pump, which is roughly half the cost. But take-up has so far been slow. To gain the government incentive, households must meet a high standard of home insulation, which can cost from £7,000 to £15,000, and for which there is currently no government support for the average homeowner.
Doug Parr, the chief scientist at Greenpeace UK, said: "The UK is in an economic, energy and climate meltdown. Yet the government continues to shun the green home upgrades that offer a viable way out of this mess. It's truly baffling."
The economic boost forecast in the Cambridge Econometrics analysis, entitled Economic Impacts of Decarbonising Heating in Residential Buildings, and published by Greenpeace on Tuesday, comes mainly from savings on soaring energy bills and the creation of green jobs, and the positive impact on the rest of the economy from freeing up people's spending.
There are also health and social benefits, as people living in under-heated homes are more prone to illness, while lifting people out of fuel poverty improves their wellbeing and the education prospects of children.
Parr said: "Greening the UK's homes at speed and scale will reduce energy consumption, bills and carbon emissions. It will provide tens of millions of households with warmer homes that are cheaper to run and help limit the catastrophic impacts of the climate crisis. As the UK is hurtling towards a recession, it could give a boost of almost £7bn for the economy by the end of the decade."
According to the modelling used in the report, in 2030 the government would need to spend £4.2bn on supporting heat pumps and insulation, with households spending £9.3bn. In that year, households would also save £11bn through lower heating costs.
According to the study, the investment required from the government for a scheme to subsidise insulation and install heat pumps would amount to about £27.7bn in total from 2022 to 2030.
Greenpeace urged Kwarteng to devote £7bn to insulation and heat pump installations over the next two years, and provide more support to those in fuel poverty through a windfall tax on oil and gas companies of 70% of their profits.
Liz Truss, prime minister, has set a cap on energy bills of £2,500 annually for the average household, substantially lower than the £3,500 that was expected under the previous system of calculating energy price caps.
However, the freeze will mean the government handing an estimated £150bn to energy companies, which critics have said does little to solve the underlying causes of the crisis, including the UK's reliance on fossil fuels, leaky houses and barriers to renewable energy.
Insulation is the cheapest way to cut energy bills, experts have repeatedly said since Russia's invasion of Ukraine sent gas prices soaring this February. But the government has made no move since then to improve home insulation rates, to the consternation of experts and green campaigners.
Insulation rates fell by 50% last year and there has been no government support for average households in England to install insulation since the scrapping of the green homes grant in March 2021, after its "botched" administration. Insulation rates have been low for the last decade, and the UK has continued to build new homes that use gas boilers, lack solar panels and are not built to low-carbon standards, so will require expensive retrofits to meet the target of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
The financial markets expect gas prices to remain high for at least two years, and some are forecasting it could be much longer.
Jon Stenning, the head of environment at Cambridge Econometrics, said: "Improving the quality of the UK's housing stock and switching to low-carbon heating technologies can bring down household bills immediately, and remove struggling household from having to choose between heating and eating this winter, while also delivering greater economic growth and substantial carbon emissions savings in the long term."
Michael Lewis, the chief executive of E.ON UK, the energy company, said: "We've seen the personal impacts of people living in warmer, more comfortable homes - not just lower bills but families leading healthier lives in streets and estates that are simply nicer places to live."
#193
Global public subsidies for fossil fuels almost doubled to $700bn in 2021, analysis has shown, representing a "roadblock" to tackling the climate crisis.
Despite the huge profits of fossil fuel companies, the subsidies soared as governments sought to shield citizens from surging energy prices as the global economy rebounded from the Covid-19 pandemic.
Most of the subsidies were used to reduce the price paid by consumers. This largely benefits wealthier households, as they use the most energy, rather than targeting those on low incomes. The subsidies are expected to rise even further in 2022 as Russia's war in Ukraine has driven energy prices even higher.
"Fossil fuel subsidies are a roadblock to a more sustainable future, but the difficulty that governments face in removing them is underscored at times of high and volatile fuel prices," said Fatih Birol, the director of the International Energy Agency, which produced the analysis with the OECD.
"A surge in investment in clean energy technologies and infrastructure is the only lasting solution to today's global energy crisis and the best way to reduce the exposure of consumers to high fuel costs," said Birol.
"Significant increases in fossil fuel subsidies encourage wasteful consumption, while not necessarily reaching low-income households," said Mathias Cormann, the OECD secretary general. "We need to adopt measures which protect consumers [and] help keep us on track to carbon neutrality, as well as energy security and affordability."
The analysis covers 51 key countries and represents 85% of the world's total energy supply. Subsidies that kept fossil fuel prices artificially low more than tripled to $531bn in 2021, compared with 2020. Subsidies for oil and gas production reached a record level of $64bn. The IEA said in May 2021 that no new fossil fuel projects should be developed if the world is to meet its climate goals.
"A period of soaring fossil fuel energy prices, when oil and gas companies are posting record-breaking profits, should be the ideal time for governments to eliminate fossil fuel production subsidies - so to see rising government support for fossil fuels now is infuriating," said Gyorgy Dallos, at Greenpeace International.
"Governments need to stick to their green pledges. On the consumer side, they urgently need to replace untargeted support measures with targeted income support to people experiencing fuel poverty."
The G20 agreed in 2009 to phase out "inefficient" fossil fuel subsidies and, in 2016, the G7 set a deadline of 2025. But little progress has been made.
The $697bn total covers explicit subsidies, including price reductions, government funding and tax breaks. Estimates including implicit subsidies, ie the cost of the climate and air pollution damage caused by fossil fuels, are far higher. These amounted to $5.9tn in 2020, according to the International Monetary Fund, or $11m a minute.
The Guardian revealed in July that the oil and gas sector has made an average of $1tn a year in pure profit for the last 50 years. These vast sums have provided the power to "buy every politician, every system" and delay action on the climate crisis, said Prof Aviel Verbruggen, the author of that analysis.
The energy crisis is proving extremely profitable for oil companies, even without subsidies. In the first six months of 2022, five leading companies - BP, Shell, ExxonMobil, Chevron and Total - made adjusted profits of nearly $100bn. The figure is the same sum that rich nations had promised to poor nations to help deal with the climate crisis by 2020, but failed to deliver.
#194
Schools and other public buildings in Italy will be forbidden from setting their air conditioning to any setting lower than 25C from next month, under a scheme intended to help the country dodge an energy crisis exacerbated by the war in Ukraine.
The energy rationing initiative, called "operation thermostat", comes as Italy on Wednesday penned a deal with Angola to ramp up gas supplies from the southern African country.
A declaration of intent was signed to develop "new" natural gas ventures and to increase exports to Italy, a statement from the Italian foreign minister announced.
Ministers also travelled to central Africa on Wednesday in search of alternative gas suppliers to Russia, from where Italy imports about 45% of its natural gas.
A debate over energy squandered through air conditioning arose after the prime minister, Mario Draghi, ironically used air conditioning as an example of something Italians might have to sacrifice in return for peace in Ukraine.
"Do we want to have peace or do we want to have the air conditioning on?" he said earlier this month, after pledging that Italy would comply if the EU decided to impose an embargo on Russian gas.
The rules will begin on 1 May and be in place until 31 March next year, with heating in public buildings during winter not permitted to exceed 19C. It is not yet clear how the measure will be policed, but inspectors from the ministry of labour could undertake controls, with those flouting the limits fined between €500 and €3,000, Il Messaggero reported. The measure does not apply to hospitals but may eventually be extended to private homes.
Renato Brunetta, the minister for public administration, said the initiative, introduced by the Five Star Movement, was a "positive" sign and would save 2-4bn cubic metres of gas a year. About 57% of the energy costs of a public office building comes from temperature control.
Angela Masi, a politician with the Five Star Movement, said: "It's correct that the public administration is setting a good example, cutting waste and raising awareness among citizens about rationalising consumption. It's a simple way to contribute and reduce dependency on gas."
After travelling to Algeria last week to strike a gas deal, Draghi was forced to cancel trips to Angola and the Republic of the Congo after testing positive for Covid-19. He is instead sending his foreign minister, Luigi Di Maio, and Roberto Cingolani, the minister of ecological transition.
In an interview with Corriere della Sera on Sunday, Draghi said: "We do not want to depend on Russian gas any longer, because economic dependence must not become political subjection. Diversification is possible and can be implemented in a relatively short amount of time - quicker than we imagined just a month ago."
#195
rax has been booted from an investment index of clean energy companies as doubts over the sustainability of its wood-burning power plant begin to mount within the financial sector.
The FTSE 250 energy giant, which has received billions in renewable energy subsidies for its biomass electricity, was axed from the index of the world's greenest energy companies after S&P Global Dow Jones changed its methodology.
The exit from the S&P Global Clean Energy Index is a blow to Drax, which has vowed to become the world's first "carbon-negative" energy company by the end of the decade.
It comes amid growing scepticism about its green credentials after the financial services firm Jefferies told its clients this week that bioenergy was "unlikely to make a positive contribution" towards tackling the climate crisis.
Drax was once one of the largest coal power generators in Europe before it converted four of the generating units at its North Yorkshire site to burn biomass instead. It received more than £800m in government subsidies and tax breaks to support the conversion last year, and could expect billions more in the future.
The company claims that burning biomass to generate electricity is "carbon neutral" because the emissions from incinerating wood pellets are offset by the carbon dioxide absorbed when the trees they are made from grow.
By using new technology to capture the carbon emissions from the biomass power plant, the company could effectively create "negative carbon emissions", according to Drax.
However, the Jefferies equity analyst Luke Sussams said bioenergy was unlikely to make a positive contribution to climate action because of "uncertainties and poor practices" in some parts of the timber industry regarding the sources of wood, forest management practices, supply chain emissions and high combustion emissions.
"We argue that bioenergy production is not carbon neutral, in almost all instances. This casts doubt on whether bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) is a net-negative emissions technology. The widespread deployment of BECCS looks challenging," he said.
The interventions by S&P Global Dow Jones and Jefferies are some of the first blows struck by a financial sector against the bioenergy sector, which has long been criticised by green groups. The S&P Global Clean Energy Index also dropped a French biomass generator, Albioma, which, like Drax, has used wood chips to replace coal in its power plants.
Despite the growing concerns, Susamms expects the UK government to continue allowing Drax to rake in billions in subsidies to support its plans. Drax's share price has climbed by more than 4.5% to 540p a share this week.
Its BECCS plans could cost British energy bill payers £31.7bn over 25 years and would "not deliver negative emissions" after accounting for the full carbon footprint of biomass in the power sector, according to the climate thinktank Ember.
Phil MacDonald, Ember's chief operating officer, said: "Scientists are increasingly raising concerns that it cannot be relied upon to reduce emissions - and financial institutions are starting to signal that they don't think it's clean or green either."
Sign up to the daily Business Today email or follow Guardian Business on Twitter at @BusinessDesk
Drax sources about two-thirds of its biomass from the south-eastern states of the US via ocean tankers, which are major emitters, and recently struck a £420m deal to triple its biomass capacity by acquiring the Canadian wood pellet manufacturer Pinnacle Renewable Energy.
"It's time for the UK government position on biomass to catch up with the evidence - so that investors are encouraged to instead invest in technologies which have been scientifically proven to reduce carbon emissions," MacDonald said.
A government spokesperson declined to comment.
A Drax spokesperson said its biomass "meets the highest sustainability standards" and that the "science underpinning carbon accounting for bioenergy" was "crystal clear".
The spokesperson added: "The world's leading authority on climate science, the UN's IPCC, is absolutely clear that sustainable biomass is crucial to achieving global climate targets, both as a provider of renewable power and through its potential to deliver negative emissions with BECCS."
#196
Germany is saving less gas than necessary to rule out shortages this winter, the head of the German grid agency has said, as the country missed its crucial target of a 20% cut in consumption last week amid dropping temperatures.
Germany, which used to draw about half of its natural gas needs from Russia before the start of the Ukraine war, has scrambled to open up new sources of energy during the last ten months.
Nonetheless, in the summer, the economy minister, Robert Habeck, announced a target of overall savings of 20% across Germany, higher than the 15% goal set by the European Commission.
After a relatively mild autumn during which German businesses and households saved more gas than required by the emergency plan, and storage tanks rose to almost 100% as a result, a cold snap at the end of last week has rung alarm bells.
"Currently, the total savings are only 13%," Klaus Müller, the head of the federal network agency for utilities, Bundesnetzagentur, told Tagesspiegel newspaper on Monday.
"If this remains an outlier, we need not worry yet. But it will remain cold in the next few days," he said. "With temperatures of -10C [14F], gas consumption shoots up dramatically."
For now, Germany's gas storage tanks remain about 95% full, and the country is planning to ceremonially unveil its first terminal for importing liquefied natural gas (LNG) at the North Sea port of Wilhelmshaven on Saturday.
"We are now getting gas from several sources," Müller said. "We will soon have three terminals for liquid gas, and we are getting good deliveries from Norway, Holland, Belgium and also via France."
He dismissed the possibility of households switching to electric heaters and overloading the grid. During cold snaps in November people could have had "the stupid and expensive idea of heating their homes with electricity instead of gas," Müller said. "Luckily no one did that."
With the stoppage of Russia gas deliveries looking permanent after the explosions at the Nord Stream 1 and 2 pipelines in September, however, there continues to be nervous uncertainty in Berlin about gas rationing in the winter of 2023-24, as well as the possibility of acts of sabotage on other areas of critical energy infrastructure.
If the German government was to announce a gas emergency, Müller's agency would have a choice between rationing gas supply to entire German regions, to individual companies with especially high demands, or to sectors of industry it declares non-vital.
In an interview with the Guardian last month, Müller said meeting the 20% savings target would require an "unrelenting effort", and stressed the importance of governments urging its citizens to make savings.
"I think it's important for governments to come clean with their citizens: without a significant reduction in our gas use we won't get through this winter without problems," Müller said. "Campaigns urging consumers to make such savings are the right thing to do, because they can be empowering. Keeping quiet about the risks, or denying them, that strikes me as the wrong strategy."
#197
Australian electricity providers have been ranked on their climate credentials in a new consumer guide that aims to cut through "greenwash".
Greenpeace's 2022 Green Electricity Guide, released on Tuesday, assessed 48 Australian energy retailers on six main criteria: providing renewable energy, ending coal use by 2030, halting fossil fuel expansion, supporting new renewable energy, transparency of marketing and pollution and environmental harm. Then, each provider was given a score out of five stars and ranked.
This is the first time the guide has been updated since 2018. Glenn Walker, a senior energy campaigner at Greenpeace and author on the 2022 guide says that the researchers placed more emphasis on "cutting through the greenwash and spin" when producing the update. This included reviewing provider websites and marketing materials to "assess how upfront they are with where their energy comes from".
Tim Baxter, senior researcher of climate solutions at Climate Council, says helping consumers see past marketing efforts is important . "Electricity is the most complicated system that most of us never have to think about," he says.
"That makes it difficult for a consumer to know what is happening when they flick their light switch on. A complicated system makes that extremely easy for any provider that is looking to pull the wool over their customers' eyes."
'Dead last'
Australia's energy giants make up the bottom of the ranks. "They are the worst polluters, and are the companies people should be switching away from," Walker says.
AGL, Australia's biggest provider, scored one star, placing "dead last" behind Origin and Energy Australia, which also scored one star. The score is a precipitous drop from AGL's fifth place in 2018, but Walker says the result is "no surprise".
Owning and running "huge, dirty coal burning power stations" is just part of the problem. Walker says a greater worry is these providers are "not moving fast enough to retire those power stations".
"The science is very clear. We know now that Australia cannot burn coal beyond 2030. Any company planning to burn coal beyond that should be heavily marked down."
In a statement, AGL did not directly address its ranking, but said: "As the country's largest electricity generator and retailer, we recognise our significant role in Australia's energy transition."
The statement outlined a number of AGL's renewable projects and investments, and said, "today we operate the largest portfolio of renewable assets of any ASX-listed company".
"We have been focused on our commitment to transition to net zero."
However, Walker calls AGL "the greenwash case in point".
"Most of their ads feature solar and windfarms. They give the impression that they are a leader of clean and green energy. They say they will get to net zero by 2050 as a company. But they want to continue mining and burning coal right up until 2048."
The AGL statement continued: "There is no doubt that coal fired generation will exit the system earlier than previously expected enabling a faster decarbonisation pathway. However this must happen as part of a coordinated plan across governments, industry, regulators and the community. Without this we create market uncertainty and put at risk energy reliability and customer affordability."
'Cleaner and greener'
"Encouragingly, since the 2018 report there has been a race to the top," Walker says. The guide's top billed retailers are "pure-play renewable electricity companies" who are investing heavily in renewable energy.
"They are not involved in mining fossil fuels, and are really transparent about their business. From every angle we assess them, they are helping transform our energy system to make it cleaner and greener."
Enova Energy and Diamond Energy "stood out with five star ratings," taking the top two positions. Diamond Energy operates solar and wind energy plants, while Enova Energy contract only renewable energy from electricity generators, and harness excess energy from customers' rooftop solar panels.
In 2018, Powershop ranked first place in the guide. It has fallen to 10th place this year, after its acquisition by fossil fuel giant Shell in 2021. Six thousand of Powershop's customers reportedly switched providers after the acquisition. That demonstrates "a strong consumer concern" in the role their provider plays in the climate crisis, Walker says.
'Not everybody has the time'
With a "bewildering array of choices out there in terms of energy providers," head of the University of New South Wales school of photovoltaic and renewable energy engineering, Prof Alistair Sproul, says the Greenpeace Guide is "useful advice for consumers".
However, Dr Hedda Ransan-Cooper, who leads the social science program within the battery storage and grid integration program of Australian National University's college of engineering and science, is wary of putting responsibility on the consumer.
"There is a real lack of leadership from the government on solutions and pathways forward to how the transition should unfold," she says. "Not everybody has the time, or capacity, to do levels of research and shop around for energy."
While Ransan-Cooper trusts "a proportion of active, engaged people" will make decisions based on the guide, she questions "how many people it is reaching".
Walker says the ultimate goal is to "provide consumers with an easy-to-use tool".
With one of the most polluting electricity grids in the world, "we should hold our government to account ... But people can be empowered to take action too."
"The quicker we switch, the better it is for prices, and the quicker we will see Australian climate pollution drop," he says. "Both benefit consumers, and consumers can be at the forefront of that."
#198
The UN climate envoy Mark Carney has warned against deferring emissions reduction targets in reaction to the energy crisis linked to the war in Ukraine, saying it will only require more "radical" action in the future.
The former Bank of England governor said he recognised the impact sanctions on Russia were having on global energy supplies and the cost of living, but added that governments could not afford to derail climate progress that could help achieve the 1.5C limit on global heating.
"European energy markets have ruptured, with negative spill overs around the globe," Carney said in a speech at the Net Zero Delivery Summit in London.
"Households in developed economies are facing crippling energy bills, and across the developing world, the grind of energy poverty is worsening. And all the while, the climate crisis grows, building future costs that will dwarf current hardships," he added.
Carney said efforts to find alternatives to Russian oil were resulting in higher emissions in the near-term, "and leading some ... to argue to temporarily set aside our climate goals".
"But we know the climate doesn't care why emissions happen, only how much occur. The more we emit now, the more radical action will be needed later. We need to speed up, not slow down," he said.
Carney stopped short of naming groups that may put climate targets under threat. However, his comments came after Conservative MPs and peers in the Net Zero Scrutiny Group tried to link the government's climate agenda to the cost of living crisis and called for cuts to green taxes and an increase in fossil fuel production.
But any attempt to delay net zero targets - at least in the UK - would mean breaching or repealing the 2008 Climate Change Act. Under the act, British governments must set five-year carbon budgets that stretch beyond the term of the current parliament. The UK's carbon budget, its sixth, runs to 2035.
Some companies have warned about their own ability to meet self-imposed climate targets in light of the Ukraine war. In March, Barclays said the effects of the invasion could impact its efforts to slash emissions, as it strives to achieve net zero by 2050. Nearly 20% of shareholders subsequently rejected its climate strategy after an annual general meeting that was disrupted by activists protesting against its financing of fossil fuels.
But Carney said that, contrary to calls for a delay to climate targets, the Russian invasion should spark further investments in green energy.
"Russia's war underscored that a resilient system needs more diversified and reliable suppliers - the price of greater security of supply in the near terms will be more stranded assets over the medium term," he said.
"Once built, clean energy systems are more affordable, efficient, resilient and reliable. No one owns the wind or the sun and hydrogen is literallyeverywhere."
#199
The decision by David Cameron's government to ditch what he denounced as "green crap" policies will cost every household as much as £150 a year by the autumn, new analysis has shown.
With energy prices already soaring and bills set to rise even further this year, it suggests Cameron's decisions to effectively end onshore wind projects in England, cut solar subsidies and slash energy-efficiency schemes played a large part in rising bills. It comes with the government preparing to announce its much anticipated energy strategy this week, as Russia's invasion of Ukraine further drives up energy prices. It is expected to push measures such as solar and onshore wind power generation, as well as North Sea oil projects. However, there are concerns that the Treasury is holding back more radical action.
Many of this week's measures could reverse action taken by the coalition government. Analysis by Carbon Brief looked at the cumulative effect of ending onshore wind subsidies, cutting energy efficiency funding and scrapping a programme to make all new homes carbon neutral. It also factored in cuts to solar energy subsidies.
With the energy price cap already at £1,277 a year and rising to £1,971 in less than a fortnight and an expected £3,000 in October, the analysis found that maintaining the green policies would have reduced energy costs by £8.3bn a year for the economy overall, part of which would equate to £150 a year per household.
Ed Miliband, the shadow climate change secretary, said: "The government said they were 'cutting the green crap' but it was a disaster - with bills for working families much higher as a result. This demonstrates once again that going green is the right way to have energy security, cut bills, and tackle the climate crisis.
"However often this government tries to relaunch their failed energy policy, they cannot be the solution to the crisis they created because they continue to face both ways on crucial issues like fracking and refuse to invest at scale at the solutions we need, including energy efficiency."
Dr Simon Evans of Carbon Brief, who conducted the analysis, said: "Cutting the so-called 'green crap' has left UK households highly exposed to soaring global gas prices and Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Energy efficiency and cheap renewables are the fastest and most effective ways to cut gas imports - and household bills."
Cameron won the Tory leadership by forging an eco-friendly reputation, pictured with huskies on an early trip to the Arctic in 2006 and later installing a wind turbine on his house but reports emerged that he had told aides to "get rid of the green crap" in 2013. At the time that the remarks emerged, Cameron's team said they did not recognise the phrase, but did not offer an outright denial. Then, a series of policies designed to push energy efficiency and renewable energy was scaled back.
The number of homes having their lofts or cavity walls insulated each year dropped by 92% and 74% in 2013 respectively and has never recovered. Subsidies ended for onshore wind turbines, and planning reforms made them harder to build. Meanwhile, solar power was excluded from government support in 2015.
Ministers have been battling for weeks to find ways of taking the pressure off energy and fuel costs. Boris Johnson travelled to Saudi Arabia this week to call for cheaper oil prices, while ministers have made clear that onshore wind and solar power generation will be prioritised in their plans. However, chancellor Rishi Sunak has rejected more radical plans such as cutting VAT on fuel bills or delaying a planned national insurance increase to help with household costs.
Government officials said that a package worth billions had already been designed, including a £150 council tax rebate for many households in England from April and a £200 energy bill loan in Great Britain in October. A Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy spokesperson said: "We have consistently backed renewable energy sources including both onshore and offshore wind, delivering a 500% increase in the amount of renewable energy capacity connected to the grid since 2010.
"We are also accelerating our progress in upgrading the energy efficiency of England's homes, investing over £6.6bn to decarbonise homes and buildings and bringing in higher minimum performance standards to ensure all homes meet EPC Band C by 2035. We are also insulating millions of consumers from high gas prices through the energy price cap." 
#200
Like millions of people across Britain, Josina, a teacher from Sheffield, is being pushed into poverty by rising energy prices. This October, when bills are set to rise again, she will have to cut back on food and other essentials if she has any hope of keeping up with the payments.
"It's terrifying, especially with three teenagers in the house. They aren't old enough to be out working yet. They're relying on us, and it's a really scary thought that you potentially can't provide for your children in that way," she said.
So Josina, 35, has made a decision: she is not going to pay her energy bill. She is one of thousands of activists joining a civil disobedience movement protesting at the soaring cost of energy.
From 1 October, the energy price cap - the maximum amount suppliers can charge in England, Scotland and Wales - will go up, leading to further bill rises for millions of customers. The typical gas and electricity bill is expected to reach £3,358 in October, according to consultancy Cornwall Insight. In October 2021, the average annual bill was £1,400.
Protesters are expected to take to the streets. But as well as more traditional campaigning methods, they also plan to pile pressure on energy suppliers and the government by ignoring their bills and cancelling their direct debits.
Don't Pay UK, the anonymous group organising the campaign, says it hopes enough people will follow suit to put energy companies in "serious trouble". "We want to bring them to the table and force them to end this crisis," its website says.
The movement has been condemned by the government. "This is highly irresponsible messaging, which ultimately will only push up prices for everyone else and affect personal credit ratings," a spokesperson said. "While no government can control global gas prices, we are providing £37bn of help for households, including the £400 discount on energy bills, and £1,200 of direct support for the most vulnerable households to help with the cost of living."
Debt and financial experts, meanwhile, are telling people to ensure they are fully informed of the potential risks of not paying, such as increased debt, and the chance of being put on a prepayment meter, or charged extra. In extreme cases, suppliers could cut the energy off, although this is rare.
Josina is aware of the risks, and says not paying is the only option for her and millions of others. In recent days, she has taken to the streets to hand out hundreds of flyers, and says the response has been "really positive".
"People are angry and scared," she said. "We aren't doing this out of choice. Millions of people across this country are going to be plunged into poverty this winter. And the strike is the only way we can push back. It's not a choice that anyone's taking lightly. I would much rather not have to do this. But it's the only choice we have." Don't Pay UK, which launched in June, said more than 75,000 people had so far signed up to join the strike if radical action is not taken by the government.
More than 21,000 people "from all walks of life" are "organising" in their local communities, it added, with activists in cities including Bristol, Brighton, Manchester and London using the messaging app Telegram to coordinate leafleting campaigns to raise awareness - more than 1.6 million of which have been distributed so far.
Its organisers are remaining anonymous, fearful of a potential backlash, but say they are a group of friends who came up with the idea "after being convinced of the need to do something about the spiralling cost of living crisis".
"From snooker halls to pubs, at work or at the school gates, everyone is talking about how much they're already struggling and their fear of when bills go up again in October," a spokesman for the group said.
He added that the protest was a "solid approach" and something "that will actually work". "Don't Pay wouldn't have caught so much attention if it were a simple gimmick," he said. "It will work, and everyone, including the energy industry and government, know it."
#201

Several UK energy suppliers have said they will raise the price of their standard gas and electricity tariffs to the maximum limit set by the energy regulator for the coming winter.
Ofgem's price cap will climb to its highest level since it was introduced in early 2019 owing to a surge in global gas market prices. The regulator said that for 11 million households who pay by direct debit, energy bills would increase from an average of £1,138 a year to £1,277 from October.
For another 4 million households who use prepayment meters - who are typically more socially vulnerable - the average energy bill will rise from £1,156 to £1,309, a difference of £153.
Eon UK and Scottish Power have raised the price of their standard gas and electricity tariffs by 12% to an average of £1,277 a year. Ovo Energy, the UK's second largest energy supplier, will raise the price of its standard dual-fuel energy tariff by 12.25% to an average of £1,276.49 a year from 1 October, just 51p shy of the cap set by Ofgem this month.
British Gas, the UK's largest energy supplier, has yet to announce a price increase.
The flurry of energy price rises began last week with EDF Energy announcing it was putting up prices by 12% to an average of £1,277 a year for its 2 million customers on standard dual-fuel tariffs.
Tom Lyon, the director of energy at energyhelpline.com, an energy switching site, said that although the Ofgem price cap sets the maximum rate for energy bills, "there is no requirement on energy suppliers to raise prices on standard variable tariffs to the highest level possible. And given we are about to enter the coldest part of the year, any increase in energy bills will be an even bigger blow to hard-pressed customers."
The increases will mean millions of homes will face having to pay some of the highest energy bills for the past decade, reigniting calls for the government to establish a social tariff for the most financially vulnerable that is priced at a discount to the standard energy price cap.
Energy switching sites have seized the opportunity to encourage households to use their services to move to cheaper fixed-rate deals before the standard tariff hikes take effect. But many of the best deals have already been pulled from the market owing to a surge in energy market prices in recent months.
"We have already started to see the cheapest tariffs being removed by suppliers, and with every passing week the best-value fixed deals are going up in price," Lyons said. "Wholesale energy prices have continued to increase sharply and the trend of the lowest-priced deals being replaced by more expensive ones could be set to continue."
#202
A secretive investor court system poses a real threat to the Paris climate agreement, activists have said, as governments taking action to phase out fossil fuels face a slew of multimillion-dollar lawsuits for lost profits.
New data seen by the Guardian shows a surge in cases under the energy charter treaty (ECT), an obscure international agreement that allows energy corporations to sue governments over policies that could hurt their profits.
Coal and oil investors are already suing governments for several billions in compensation for lost profits over energy policy changes. For example, the German energy company RWE is suing the Netherlands for €1.4bn (£1.2bn) over its plans to phase out coal, while Rockhopper Exploration, based in the UK, is suing the Italian government after it banned new drilling near the coast.
"It's a real threat [to the Paris agreement]. It's the biggest threat I am aware of," said Yamina Saheb, a former employee of the ECT secretariat who quit in 2018 to raise the alarm.
"The Paris agreement ... means that we need to decarbonise in the current decade before 2030," said Saheb, also a co-author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's report on mitigation. She has estimated that foreign investors could sue governments for €1.3tn until 2050 in compensation for early closure of coal, oil and gas plants - a sum that exceeds what the EU hopes to spend on its green deal in the next decade.
As compensation to companies is paid by public funds, governments would have less money to pay for new technology to make buildings, transport and industry greener. Saheb argued these payments could endanger the green transition. "It's impossible to do everything," she said.
Separate analysis of the treaty shared exclusively with the Guardian showed a 269% increase in cases in 2011-20 compared with the previous decade. "We are going to see in future many more cases," said Lucía Bárcena, of the Amsterdam-based Transnational Institute, who compiled the data. Since 2013, two-thirds of the cases have been brought against western European governments.
"The energy charter treaty ... has no cohesion at all with [EU] climate policies," Bárcena said. "Trade and investment agreements are binding on states, which means if they break the contract then they have to pay huge amounts of money, while there is no other mechanism that binds countries to the goals that they are setting at Cop26. There is a big asymmetry."
Representatives from the ECT's 54 members are meeting next week for a ninth round of talks on modernising the treaty.
Signed in 1994, the treaty was intended to protect western companies investing in the oil- and gas-rich countries of the former Soviet Union. Only foreign investors, rather than domestic ones, can use the system, prompting longstanding complaints of privileged access. Campaigners now fear it could stymie the green transition.
"We obviously have to get out of the fossil field quite quickly and the energy charter treaty is in the way because it protects fossil fuels," said Cornelia Maarfield, a senior trade and investment policy coordinator at the Climate Action Network Europe. "Our main concern is that once governments start taking decisions to phase out coal, gas and oil, they will run into difficulties with the investment protection chapter of this agreement."
Germany's RWE is suing the Netherlands for €1.4bn after the Dutch government decided to close all coal-fired power plants by 2030, including RWE's Eemshaven plant, which began operating in 2015 with an expected life-span of 40 years. RWE said it supported the energy transition in the Netherlands, and "the only issue is therefore the fact that the coal ban law does not provide for adequate compensation".
Another German utility, Uniper, is reported to be seeking between €850m and €1bn for the early closure of its Maasvlakte coal-fired power plant near Rotterdam, which opened in 2016. The company declined to confirm the damages it was seeking, saying: "Uniper is convinced that shutting down our power plant in Maasvlakte after only 15 years of operation would be unlawful without adequate compensation."
The London-listed Rockhopper is suing Italy after MPs in 2016 reintroduced restrictions on drilling for oil and gas within 12 nautical miles of the coast. Rockhopper, which has never revealed the size of its claim, said in September it was suing for "very significant monetary damages on the basis of lost profits" after the Italian government rejected its oil exploration plans on the Ombrina Mare project in the Adriatic Sea.
Rockhopper said: "The Italian government issued licences and encouraged significant investment in oil and gas exploration based on this platform. Clearly it is not equitable to change the rules halfway through. It is also important to note that Italy continues to produce significant quantities of oil and gas within 12 miles of the coast."
Investors are known to have filed 142 cases against governments since the ECT came into force in 1998. But these are only the known cases. Even the ECT's Brussels-based secretariat acknowledges it does not have a complete picture, because investors are not obliged to reveal legal action under the ECT.
Urban Rusnák, the secretary general of the Energy Charter Secretariat, rejected the view that the treaty would hamper governments getting out of fossil fuels, saying it did not proscribe energy policy. "The treaty does not ban the governments [from stopping fossil fuels] There is nothing like automatic punishment."
He suggested governments could quit fossil fuels without disputes under the ECT if they took a smart approach. "If the government is clever enough and they care about their investment climate, they can manage around," he said.
Rusnák, who grew up in communist Czechoslovakia, stressed the importance of the ECT in upholding the rule of law. "Some recent requests of climate activists to ban all fossil fuels without any compensation are coming very close to what happened in Czechoslovakia ... when the regime in 1948 decided to expropriate all industries for a good reason of social justice," he said. "My point here is not about individual cases. It's about the system. Either we as a western civilisation really believe what we have agreed: we have to honour our agreements, and if conditions change we have to sit down and negotiate how we will get out of it."
Neither did he agree with a proposal by NGOs that EU governments should quit the ECT en masse. "It is legally possible but the consequences are dire," he said, referring to a 20-year sunset clause that meant signatories remained bound for two decades. "Please be serious about the reform ... Otherwise you will be locked in a treaty that you don't like for 20 years."
Saheb argues the treaty is beyond reform because central Asian member states will veto any weakening of protection for fossil fuels. "The EU countries should withdraw altogether as one," she said. "If we withdraw altogether we could agree to cancel this clause and then we could move on with our energy transition."
#203

Countries around the world are pouring funds into new natural gas facilities that could destroy the chances of limiting global heating, in response to soaring energy prices and the war in Ukraine.
Governments including the US, Germany, the UK and Canada are investing in new gas production, distribution and use as they seek to sanction Russia over the invasion of Ukraine, according to new research.
The findings, from the Climate Action Tracker research initiative, show a dash for gas under way that will lock countries into fossil fuel use at a crucial time, when scientists have warned that a decisive turn towards lower-carbon alternatives within the next few years is the only way to stave off climate breakdown.
Niklas Höhne, of NewClimate Institute, one of the partners behind the Climate Action Tracker, said: "We're about to witness a 'gold rush' for new fossil gas production, pipelines and LNG [liquefied natural gas] facilities, locking us into another high-carbon decade."
The report highlighted the US, which has signed a deal to export additional LNG to the EU, through an increased effort on fracking. Germany and Italy have also signed deals with Qatar as a gas supplier, as has Egypt, the host of the world's next climate summit, Cop27 in Sharm El-Sheikh this November.
Canada also plans new LNG production, fast-tracking construction to meet export demand. Overall, fossil fuel production has increased in Canada, the US, Norway, Italy and Japan, according to Climate Action Tracker.
The UK is also facing a massive expansion of oil and gas production in the North Sea, as the government has imposed a windfall tax on the industry that contains a loophole encouraging companies to invest in new production.
Developing countries are getting in on the act, too. Nigeria is reviving gas pipeline projects that had been shelved, and Senegal and other countries are hoping to explore their gas reserves.
Oil and gas companies around the world are enjoying a bonanza after the war in Ukraine sent energy prices - already rising as the world recovered from the economic shock of Covid-19 - to fresh highs.
The dash for gas comes as scientists have warned it is "now or never" on the climate. Global greenhouse gas emissions must be halved by 2030, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, to give the world a chance of limiting global temperature rises to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels, the target agreed at last year's Cop26 climate summit.
Some countries have argued that gas production has a role in the transition to a clean energy future, as gas produces less carbon dioxide than coal. But the International Energy Agency warned a year ago that no new oil and gas exploration could take place from this year on, if the world was to limit global heating to 1.5C.
Separate research has also found that moving directly to renewable energy from coal is cheaper than using gas as a "transition" fuel.
Bill Hare, chief executive of Climate Analytics, also a partner in the Climate Action Tracker, said the world was compounding the mistake made after the Covid-19 pandemic struck, when despite soaring green rhetoric, few countries made a decisive shift in favour of a low-carbon economic recovery.
He warned: "Something has to change: we cannot go on responding to short-term shocks, be they pandemics or energy shocks from conflict, by taking steps that would increase emissions, ignoring the looming crisis of climate change."
Hare also pointed to the many alternative policies governments should use, such as improving energy efficiency, ramping up renewable energy, boosting public transport and imposing windfall taxes on the bumper profits of fossil fuel companies. These have been largely neglected in many countries, the CAT report warned, which have focused on short-term energy supply responses instead.
#204
Demand for batteries linked to rooftop solar panels has soared in the past month amid energy price rices and the coldest start to winter in decades.
According to Solar Victoria chief executive, Stan Krpan, inquiries into battery rebates in Victoria have spiked in the past two weeks.
The Andrews government, which expanded its solar rebate scheme in the March budget, offers up to $3,500 for households to install a solar battery, as well as rebates for solar panels and solar hot water systems.
The Clean Energy Council, the industry group representing Australia's renewables industry, also said solar retailers were reporting a boom in sales enquiries.
About 30% of Australian homes have rooftop solar, the highest rate in the world.
Battery systems provide power for use at night, on cloudy days or, in some cases, in blackouts.
Krpan said there had been 5,842 battery rebate applications approved this financial year, with three weeks left to go - more than double the number received last year.
"In the past two weeks, phone inquiries to our contact centre have been 50% higher than the yearly average," Krpan said.
"We're expecting this to lead to growth in installations over the winter months."
Kane Thornton, chief executive of the Clean Energy Council, said solar retailers under the council's accreditation scheme were reporting significant increases in enquiries, "with consumers looking to take control of their energy bills through rooftop solar and batteries."
"Recent media stories around the rising cost of electricity and now the threat of interruptions to power supply seem to be a driver of this increase in interest in the feedback we've received," he said.
More than three million Australian households and small businesses now had solar systems installed, according to Thornton, "and we're expecting 2022 to be another strong year for small-scale solar and storage."
Other states and territories offering similar battery schemes including South Australia and the ACT said their strong investment in renewables had softened the blow of the energy price hike.
The ACT was the first state or territory to introduce a battery rebate incentive scheme in 2016, offering households a rebate of $3,500 or 50% of the cost to install a solar battery.
As of 1 June, 2,990 battery install rebates have been issued.
An ACT government spokesperson said there'd been a renewed rise in applications since a zero interest loan scheme was introduced alongside the existing scheme in August last year.
Under the scheme, households can borrow between $2,000 and $15,000 to invest in energy efficient products including rooftop solar, battery and hot water heat pumps.
"Solar and battery storage can save an average householder 60-80% on their electricity bills," the spokesperson said.
Since South Australia's home battery scheme began in late 2018, 19,830 households have been conditionally approved for the subsidy, while 18,517 batteries have been installed.
Households who have taken up the scheme reported annual electricity bill reductions between $300 and $2,000.
A spokesperson for the department of energy and mining said inquiries into the SA scheme had increased in the past month, but that could be because it announced last month that the applications would close on 1 September, or earlier if grant money ran out.
Nicki Hutley, former partner at Deloitte Access Economics, said the ACT and South Australia were "showing the rest of the nation" how investment in renewables brought greater household and business returns.
"As one of the sunniest and windiest countries on earth, we have the tools we need," Hutley said. "Governments can step up by attracting capital and by investing in more labour skills to support the transition."
Household power bills in the ACT are expected to be about $800 lower than those in NSW next financial year, after the territory cut electricity prices due to securing a long-term supply of cheap renewable energy.
While battery rebates are relatively new, rebates for solar panels have been available for more than five years and growth in the installation of new rooftop solar systems has started to slow.
Installed rooftop solar PV capacity was down 28% in the 2022 March quarter compared to the same period last year, the Clean Energy Regulator's latest report has found.
Clean Energy Regulator chair, David Parker, said it was always anticipated the trend would eventually slow.
"The decline this year is in line with the decline in home improvements spending which boomed during the first two years of the pandemic," Parker said.
The report also cited cost of living pressures and feed in tariffs decreasing over the past year as possible factors in the downturn.
"This is still the third-highest annual capacity ever and is higher than pre-pandemic installation rates," he said.
#205
Accusations of greenwashing against major oil companies that claim to be in transition to clean energy are well-founded, according to the most comprehensive study to date.
The research, published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal, examined the records of ExxonMobil, Chevron, Shell and BP, which together are responsible for more than 10% of global carbon emissions since 1965. The researchers analysed data over the 12 years up to 2020 and concluded the company claims do not align with their actions, which include increasing rather than decreasing exploration.
The study found a sharp rise in mentions of "climate", "low-carbon" and "transition" in annual reports in recent years, especially for Shell and BP, and increasing pledges of action in strategies. But concrete actions were rare and the researchers said: "Financial analysis reveals a continuing business model dependence on fossil fuels along with insignificant and opaque spending on clean energy."
Numerous previous studies have shown there are already more reserves of oil and gas and more planned production than could be burned while keeping below the internationally agreed temperature target of 1.5C. In May 2021, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said there can be no new fossil fuel developments if the world is to reach net zero by 2050.
Oil companies are under increasing pressure from investors to align their businesses with climate targets. But their plans have faced scepticism, prompting the researchers to conduct the new research, which they said was objective and comprehensive.
"Until there is very concrete progress, we have every reason to be very sceptical about claims to be moving in a green direction," said Prof Gregory Trencher, at Kyoto University in Japan, who worked with Mei Li and Jusen Asuka at Tohoku University.
"If they were moving away from fossil fuels we would expect to see, for example, declines in exploration activity, fossil fuel production, and sales and profit from fossil fuels," he said. "But if anything, we find evidence of the reverse happening."
"Recent pledges look very nice and they're getting a lot of people excited, but we have to put these in the context of company history of actions," Trencher said. "It's like a very naughty schoolboy telling the teacher 'I promise to do all my homework next week', but the student has never worked hard."
The new study, published in the journal PLOS One, found mentions of climate-related keywords in annual reports rose sharply from 2009 to 2020. For example, BP's use of "climate change" went from 22 to 326 mentions.
But in terms of strategy and actions, the researchers found "the companies are pledging a transition to clean energy and setting targets more than they are making concrete actions".
Chevron and ExxonMobil were "laggards" compared to Shell and BP, the researchers said, but even the European majors' actions appeared to contradict their pledges. For example, BP and Shell pledged to reduce investments in fossil fuel extraction projects, but both increased their acreage for new exploration in recent years, the researchers said.
Furthermore, the analysis found Shell, BP, and Chevron increased fossil fuel production volumes over the study period. None of the companies directly releases data on their investments in clean energy, but information they provided to the Carbon Disclosure Project indicates low average levels ranging from 0.2% by ExxonMobil to 2.3% by BP of annual capital expenditure (capex). Separate analysis by the IEA indicates that investment in clean energy by oil and gas companies was about 1% of capex in 2020.
"Until actions and investment behaviour are brought into alignment with discourse, accusations of greenwashing appear well-founded," the researchers said.
A spokesperson for ExxonMobil said: "The move to a lower emission future requires multiple solutions that can be implemented at scale. We plan to play a leading role in the energy transition, while retaining investment flexibility across a portfolio of evolving opportunities, including for example carbon capture, hydrogen and biofuels, to maximise shareholder returns."
A Chevron spokesperson said: "We are focused on lowering the carbon intensity in our operations and seeking to grow lower carbon businesses along with our traditional business lines. We are planning $10bn in lower carbon investments by 2028."
Shell's spokesperson said: "Shell's target is to become a net zero emissions energy business by 2050, in step with society. Our short, medium and long term intensity and absolute targets are consistent with the more ambitious 1.5C goal of the Paris Agreement. We were also the first energy company to submit its energy transition strategy to shareholders for a vote, securing strong endorsement."
A spokesperson for BP said: "In 2020 BP set out our new net zero ambition, aims and strategy, and in 2021 completed the largest transformation of the company in our history to deliver these. Because this paper looks back historically over the period 2009-2020, we don't believe it will take these developments and our progress fully into account."
Trencher rejected the charge that the analysis was out of date: "We included the documents that were published during 2021, so the so-called data gap is only about six months and we don't find any evidence of any new actions that would change any of our findings."
"Unfortunately, the way the energy markets are structured around the world, fossil fuels still enjoy many [regulatory and tax] advantages and renewables are still disadvantaged," he said.
#206
Queensland's energy minister has declared that none of the state's eight coal-fired power stations will be closed as part of its 10-year energy transition plan, raising doubts about the government's climate change and energy targets.
Mick de Brenni said later this year he would present a plan to generate 50% of the state's electricity from renewable energy sources, cut carbon emissions by 30% by 2030 and achieve net zero by 2050.
However, there are questions about those targets after he added that eight existing coal-fired power plants would remain open.
"First, to make this really clear that as part of our vision for the future, it does not include closing down any of our coal-fired power stations," de Brenni told a Committee for Economic Development of Australia (Ceda) lunch in Brisbane on Wednesday.
"They will continue to play a significant role in our electricity system going forward.
"We have a great assemblance of skills and resources, and important connections throughout the distribution, the transmission network.
"Those power stations serve as great opportunities for us to modernise the electricity system to invest into those communities, so I think there will be a real vibrance across regional Queensland because of the investment we will make."
The minister said the government would "continue to support" the coal and gas industries, as a regulator and a "market participant".
Queensland produced almost one-third of Australia's 315m tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2020-21, according to the Clean Energy Regulator (CER).
Almost half the state's emissions came from coal-fired power plants, with other major sources including coalmining and oil and gas extraction.
The CER also listed three Queensland generators - Stanwell Coporation, CS Energy and OzGen Holdings - among Australia's top 10 emitters in 2021-22.
University of Queensland economist Associate Prof Ian MacKenzie said de Brenni's comments weren't based on sound economics or ethics.
"The simplest and most cost-effective way to get to these targets, the most efficient way, is by phasing out coal and investing in new renewable technologies, it's simple as that," he said.
De Brenni said he would also delay the release of the energy plan until the third quarter of 2022 due to the federal election.
"We've seen some other energy plans released by other levels of government that I think we all thought left a little bit to be desired," he said.
"We don't want to do that here in Queensland, as we've taken the time to properly consult and we also thought it was fair for the citizens of this state, and the taxpayers of this state, and those that want to invest in Queensland, they actually see what came forward during the federal election."
MacKenzie said a further delay was significant because the government only had eight years until 2030.
He said the industry, investors, consumers and the general population all needed certainty about the energy transition and climate action as soon as possible.
"If the government keeps kicking the can down the road, you're going to end up with a lot of unhappy citizens and a lot of unhappy industry stakeholders because they just don't know what's going on," MacKenzie said.
"It's not good for anyone."
#207
The fossil fuel industry benefits from subsidies of $11m every minute, according to analysis by the International Monetary Fund.
The IMF found the production and burning of coal, oil and gas was subsidised by $5.9tn in 2020, with not a single country pricing all its fuels sufficiently to reflect their full supply and environmental costs. Experts said the subsidies were "adding fuel to the fire" of the climate crisis, at a time when rapid reductions in carbon emissions were urgently needed.
Explicit subsidies that cut fuel prices accounted for 8% of the total and tax breaks another 6%. The biggest factors were failing to make polluters pay for the deaths and poor health caused by air pollution (42%) and for the heatwaves and other impacts of global heating (29%).
Setting fossil fuel prices that reflect their true cost would cut global CO2 emissions by over a third, the IMF analysts said. This would be a big step towards meeting the internationally agreed 1.5C target. Keeping this target within reach is a key goal of the UN Cop26 climate summit in November.
Agreeing rules for carbon markets, which enable the proper pricing of pollution, is another Cop26 goal. "Fossil fuel price reform could not be timelier," the IMF researchers said. The ending of fossil fuel subsidies would also prevent nearly a million deaths a year from dirty air and raise trillions of dollars for governments, they said.
"There would be enormous benefits from reform, so there's an enormous amount at stake," said Ian Parry, the lead author of the IMF report. "Some countries are reluctant to raise energy prices because they think it will harm the poor. But holding down fossil fuel prices is a highly inefficient way to help the poor, because most of the benefits accrue to wealthier households. It would be better to target resources towards helping poor and vulnerable people directly."
With 50 countries committed to net zero emissions by mid-century and more than 60 carbon pricing schemes around the world, there are some encouraging signs, Parry said: "But we're still just scratching the surface really, and there's an awful long way to go."
The G20 agreed in 2009 to phase out "inefficient" fossil fuel subsidies and in 2016, the G7 set a deadline of 2025, but little progress has been made. In July, a report showed that the G20 countries had subsidised fossil fuels by trillions of dollars since 2015, the year the Paris climate deal was reached.
"To stabilise global temperatures we must urgently move away from fossil fuels instead of adding fuel to the fire," said Mike Coffin, senior analyst at the thinktank Carbon Tracker. "It's critical that governments stop propping up an industry that is in decline, and look to accelerate the low-carbon energy transition, and our future, instead.
"As host of Cop26, the UK government could play an important global leadership role by ending all subsidies for fossil fuels, as well as halting new North Sea licensing rounds," he said. The International Energy Agency (IEA) said in May that the development of new oil and gas fields must stop this year to meet climate goals.
The comprehensive IMF report found that prices were at least 50% below their true costs for 99% of coal, 52% of diesel and 47% of natural gas in 2020. Five countries were responsible for two-thirds of the subsidies: China, the US, Russia, India and Japan. Without action, subsidies will rise to $6.4tn in 2025, the IMF said.
Proper pricing for fossil fuels would cut emissions by, for example, encouraging electricity generators to switch from coal to renewable energy and making electric cars an even cheaper option for motorists. International cooperation is important, Parry said, to allay fears that countries could lose competitiveness if their fossil fuel prices were higher.
"The IMF report is a sobering reading, pointing to one of the major defects of the global economy," said Maria Pastukhova, at the thinktank e3g. "The IEA's net-zero roadmap projects that $5tn is necessary by 2030 to put the world on the pathway to a climate-safe world. It is maddening to realise the much-needed change could start happening now, if not for governments' entanglement with the fossil fuels industry in so many major economies."
"Fossil fuel subsidies have been a major stumbling block in the G20 process for years," she said. "Now all eyes are on the G20 leaders' summit in late October."
Ipek Gençsü, at the Overseas Development Institute, said: "[Subsidy reform] requires support for vulnerable consumers who will be impacted by rising costs, as well for workers in industries which simply have to shut down. It also requires information campaigns, showing how the savings will be redistributed to society in the form of healthcare, education and other social services. Many people oppose subsidy reform because they see it solely as governments taking something away, and not giving back."
The G20 countries emit almost 80% of global greenhouse gases. More than 600 global companies in the We Mean Business coalition, including Unilever, Ikea, Aviva, Siemens and Volvo Cars, recently urged G20 leaders to end fossil fuel subsidies by 2025.
#208
The Eiffel Tower, whose twinkling lights define the night-time Paris skyline, is to fall dark earlier because of the energy crisis.
Paris city hall is expected to propose this week that the monument, which is among the most visited in the world, should go dark more than an hour earlier than usual, as Europe faces spiralling energy costs aggravated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The Eiffel Tower is currently illuminated after dark until 1am by an elaborate lighting system that gives it a golden glow. In addition, the monument twinkles for five minutes on the hour from nightfall, thanks to 20,000 flashing bulbs.
The city hall is expected to propose that the tower fall dark at 11.45pm when the final visitors leave, meaning it will no longer twinkle at midnight.
The Eiffel Tower went dark on Thursday night - an exceptional measure - to mark the death of Queen Elizabeth II.
The move to curtail the lighting is seen as a way to set an example for the reduction of city illumination in general.
Jean-François Martins, the head of the tower's management, said: "It's a highly symbolic gesture - part of the growing awareness around energy sobriety."
The night-time lighting of the monument accounts for 4% of its annual energy consumption. The tower, which was completed in 1889, has returned to pre-Covid visitor numbers at more than 20,000 a day.
Other city authorities are also reducing the night-time lighting of important sites. Monuments in Marseille including the Pharo Palace will switch lights off earlier from the end of September in order to save energy.
In Berlin this summer, night-time lighting was reduced on several monuments, including the Victory Column, Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church and the Jewish Museum.
#209
Households could save more than £400 a year on energy bills if clocks were not put back at the end of October, according to an expert, who said it would help people with the cost of living crisis and reduce pressure on the National Grid this winter.
Evening energy demand peaks between 5pm and 7pm during winter. If clocks stayed on daylight saving time (DST), it would remain light for at least part of this time, reducing carbon emissions and energy demand.
Prof Aoife Foley, a clean energy expert at Queen's University Belfast, said: "By simply forgoing the winter DST in October, we save energy because it is brighter in the evening during winter, so we reduce commercial and residential electrical demand as people leave work earlier, and go home earlier, meaning less lighting and heating is needed."
This would help the government tackle the "energy war" in Europe resulting from the Ukraine invasion, she said. "Dependent on weather conditions this winter it is very likely we may need to start rationing energy very seriously to avoid bigger energy issues in December and January when gas reserves start to run low," she said.
Foley's calculations suggest that households could save £1.20 a day and more than £400 a year on electricity bills if clocks are not put back at the end of October, although exact amounts depend on tariffs.
While Foley argues for an extension of summer clock settings, there has long been debate over whether actually to scrap DST, introduced in 1916 to reduce energy demand during the war by prolonging evening daylight in summer. Opponents argue that it causes sleep disturbance, and contributes to potential road accidents. It was originally proposed in 1907 by William Willett, a builder and the great, great-grandfather of Coldplay's Chris Martin, who is well known for the song Clocks.
The European parliament voted to scrap the hour change in 2019, and a poll showed that most EU citizens agreed. But the change has yet to be implemented and no longer applies to the UK after Brexit.
Foley did not include gas savings or electricity and gas in the commercial or industrial sectors in her calculations, but she said these would offer "even more significant energy, cost and emissions reductions", flattening the evening peak on energy demand by up to 10%.
When it comes to concern about road traffic collisions, Foley's research suggested most road deaths occur in good visibility during the day and outside built-up areas, and usually on a Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, with speed, tiredness and alcohol the main factors.
There would also be time zone issues between the UK and Ireland, creating two time zones between the north and south. Foley suggested this could be remedied if the two governments consulted on an emergency proposal to abolish daylight saving this year.
A government spokesperson said: "We do not agree with this claim, and it is wrong to suggest this would save people money. The current daylight-saving arrangements give optimal use of the available daylight across the UK.
"We know it is a difficult time for families across the country, which is why we have put in place immediate support for the coming winter. The Government's Energy Price Guarantee is reducing the price of energy and millions of the most vulnerable households are also receiving £1,200 each this year in additional support."
 This article was amended on 21 October 2022 to add a response from the government, which was received after publication.
#210
Britain's libraries and museums are preparing to act as warm havens for people unable to afford to heat their homes in the winter months.
Ministers are being called on to provide urgent new funding so public buildings can cope with a surge in visitors during the coldest months.
The buildings will be part of a network across the country which will provide warm shelter to help reduce excess winter deaths linked to freezing conditions.
The call for support to ensure key public buildings can keep their doors open comes as organisations across the country are being confronted with vast increases in energy bills. One care homes group told the Observer that its annual energy bills are rising from £1.5m a year to £7.7m.
Alistair Brown, policy manager at the Museums Association, representing the museum sector, said: "Museums will be relied upon to respond to this crisis, but many will be struggling to heat their own spaces.
"People are beginning to understand the scale of the crisis and we don't want to reduce the hours that museums are open."
Catalyst Science Discovery Centre and Museum in Widnes, Cheshire, said last week that the quote for renewing its annual gas contract had risen from £9,700 to £54,362.
Isobel Hunter, chief executive of Libraries Connected, which represents the public library sector, said: "Central government should provide councils with additional funding this winter to meet rising energy costs, which would help ensure libraries stay open as vital warm refuges for their communities."
Paul Drumm, of GLL, a charitable social enterprise that operates libraries in Greenwich in south-east London, said the borough's libraries had already spent £28,000 on new seats and other furniture to prepare for the increase in visitors during the winter months.
He said: "We are acutely aware of the huge impact that the energy crisis will have on many living within the local community. We will be promoting our libraries as designated 'warm spaces' for those who can't afford to heat their homes."
The libraries and museums will be part of a national network of warm hubs provided by local councils, community groups and charities. South Cambridgeshire district council issued a tender earlier this month for a contract to deliver "a series of warm hubs from community buildings" to support those at risk from the cold.
Meanwhile Care England, which represents 4,500 care services, said operators were facing up to 500% increases in energy costs, with some considering reducing the number of elderly people they take from hospital wards or shutting their care homes in order to survive.
"Care services across the country will have to close this winter unless the government takes immediate action. Some providers just won't be able to go on - they will collapse," said Professor Martin Green, chief executive of Care England. "There is no cap on energy costs for care homes and elderly care home residents do not get any rebate from the government."
Analysis by the consultancy BoxPower shows that care homes were paying energy costs equivalent to £700 per bed every year. But this month homes are being quoted the equivalent of £4,027 per bed for those wishing to purchase energy from October. This is an increase of around 437% in energy cost per bed in a 12-month period.
Brunelcare, which provides sheltered housing to 1,400 people and runs seven care homes in Bristol and Somerset, was forced this month to sign a new annual energy contract worth £7.7m because prices were rising by £100,000 a day. The charity was paying around £1.5m a year until last year.
"We're in an absolutely impossible situation," said Oona Goldsworthy, the chief executive of Brunelcare. "I've had one of the worst weeks ever and I've been through Covid so I know what hard times are like. We are being completely abandoned again."
A government spokesperson said it had made £3.7bn of additional funding available to local authorities, which they can spend on adult social care. "No national government can control the global factors pushing up the price of energy, but we will continue to support businesses, including care homes, in navigating the months ahead," a spokesperson said.
Headteachers say they are faced with a "double whammy" of spiralling energy bills and an increased 5% pay rise for teachers. An executive headteacher in a multi-academy trust, who oversees a number of inner city secondary schools and asked not to be named, said: "I'm already at the bare bones of support staff. We won't replace any staff as they leave." His schools are already rolling two classes of children together to cover temporary staff gaps.
Dan Morrow, chief executive of the Dartmoor multi-academy trust in Devon, said it was now a "race to the bottom" for schools, and the effects on children "will be profound for generations". His trust needs to find an extra £800,000 for utility bills this year, and £900,000 for pay increases.
#211

Small business owners across Britain have told of sleepless nights and fears they will not survive the winter due to looming increases in their energy bills.
Firms have experienced a 424% rise in gas costs and 349% increase in electricity since February 2021, data from the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) shows.
Thousands of traders are looking to renegotiate electricity and gas contracts that expire in October as two-year fixed-price supply deals come to an end.
Companies do not have a cap on their energy bills, unlike domestic consumers who will learn the next Ofgem price cap rate on Friday, leaving them at the mercy of whipsawing wholesale gas markets.
Small firms in the UK have raised the alarm over the risk posed to their future. They include:
* A hotel in Aberdeen which says it will be cheaper to close for the winter than heat rooms for guests.
* A fish and chip shop in Oswestry, Shropshire, where annual energy bills are rising from £9,000 to £35,000.
* A chicken takeaway franchisee in Peterborough who fears customers will desert him if he pushes up prices to pay his bills.
* An indoor mushroom farm in Bangor, Gwynedd, whose strong trading has been undermined by a "ridiculous" hike in its energy costs.
Paul Bright, who owns the Glasgow bar and restaurant Strip Joint, said the problem was bigger than the pandemic, and from December his annual bill will rise from £22,000 to £80,000 if he stays with E.ON.
Small businesses at risk of closing down. Photograph: Luis Alvarez/Getty Images
"No one is surviving that," he said. "The only thing that's keeping me sane is that no one can survive that - something has to be done."
Companies typically fix the price of the energy costs for between one and five years to insulate themselves from volatile market conditions. This has meant many businesses have managed to keep costs stable during the energy crisis, which began in late 2021.
UK gas prices have hit record highs of more than 700p a therm, compared with just over 100p a year ago.
However, the consultancy Cornwall Insight said businesses that fixed prices in mid-2020 are expected to see a fivefold increase in October when contracts come up for renewal. About 70% of companies renew their fixed-term deals in October, which is a legacy of the industry's privatisation. Some businesses have been asked to pay a large deposit to secure a new deal.
The FSB has called on the government to step in with financial help. It wants the higher-threshold rate of VAT reduced from 20% to 5%. The lower threshold and domestic rate of VAT could be reduced from 5% to 0%, it said.
The body also suggested business rates rebates; a similar mechanism to the domestic price cap brought in for companies; or a scheme to support businesses to decarbonise with £5,000 vouchers to be spent on items such as solar panels and heat pumps.
Daniel Mussard says there are so many cutbacks he can make before having to close the doors on his hotel business. Photograph: Supplied
Daniel Mussard, the owner of the eight-bedroom Bennachie Lodge hotel near Aberdeen, says its energy bill of £2,780 will rise above £6,000 from November and that is before the cold weather begins. "There are only so many cutbacks we can make before we simply do not have enough staff to run the operation," he said. "It is the prospect of it costing more to run than we make that is a real and imminent concern which simply means we make less of a loss by closing the doors."
Muhammad Kamran Zahoor, who has been running a branch of the Sam's Chicken takeaway franchise in Peterborough since last year, said he was having sleepless nights over the rise in energy costs. Zahoor's electricity costs with British Gas will rise from an average of £1,500 to £5,000 a month when his current contract ends in January. He said: "There is no possibility that my business and thousands of businesses like mine could survive."
Connor McCrorie, who runs the Sporeshore indoor mushroom farm in Bangor, said the business would be doing "extremely well" were it not for skyrocketing energy bills.
????? ?????
He said: "We've been commercially sound for two years, but my electricity bill increased from £300 a month to over £900 and some months £1,000, it's ridiculous. I have cut as much as I can but it's still incredibly high."
Harry Haralambous says his annual energy costs at the Salop Fish Bar in Oswestry are going from £9,000 to upwards of £35,000. Photograph: Supplied
At the Salop Fish Bar in Oswestry, Harry Haralambous says his annual energy costs are going from £9,000 to upwards of £35,000. His contracts with British Gas and SSE ended this summer, putting him at a disadvantage against competitors whose fixed-term deals may not end until next year.
The business has been in the family for 46 years and, determined to keep going, he has been left with no choice but to put up prices. But footfall and spending are declining. "People are starting to tighten up their purses, and buying cheaper things as well - for example, instead of fish and chips, sausage and chips. Now we've put prices up, it's waiting to see if people will come back."
Shamim Gammage and Eleanor Weil say energy costs are forcing them to 'think twice' about the ways in which they hope to expand their business. Photograph: Shamim Gammage/Guardian Community
Shamim Gammage and his wife, Eleanor Weil, set up a business last year producing vegan frozen ready meals from their commercial kitchen in the Cotswolds.
The fledgling company, Dovebrook, with four full-time staff and one part-timer has just won four Great Taste awards for its plant-based meals, and should be primed to grow very quickly this year, but its bills are about to increase from £450 to as much as £4,000 a month. "We are going to fit solar panels to our roof to take some of the sting out, but not everyone has the £30k to do that, and not everyone owns the building they are in."
Lisa Allsop and her husband, Ian, who run a garden centre, farm shop and cafe in Snowdonia national park and employ four part-time staff, said they were unable to get a quote from their supplier, E.ON.
Lisa and Ian Allsop are unable to write cashflow plans for next year as their energy provider cannot predict their future energy bills. Photograph: Lisa Allsop/Guardian Community
"Our current bill is about £300 a month," said Lisa, "so we're dreading what the increase will be."
Tina McKenzie, the policy and advocacy chair of the FSB, said: "Examples of small firms having to close due to their gas and electric bills are piling up, each one a sad loss to the community and the wider economy. The damage that will be caused by this toll rising even further risks wider contagion.
"Current government inaction is just not good enough. Inaction risks devastation, and the avoidable loss of the small firms that add vibrancy and character as well as employment and vital services to local communities."
#212
Work must begin urgently on five big transmission projects if Australia's main power grid is to succeed in its "once-in-a-century transformation" off fossil fuels without shortages and energy cost blowouts, the market operator said in its blueprint report.
The integrated system plan (ISP), updated biennially by the Australian Energy Market Operator and released on Thursday, estimated the grid serving eastern states would need at least 10,000km of new transmission lines to link up a nine-fold expansion of wind and solar farm capacity by 2050 under its mostly likely scenario.
By mid-century, almost two-thirds of Australia's detached homes will have their own solar panels, up from about 30% now. To support the rapid expansion of energy sources that vary according to the sunshine and wind, the grid will also need to triple the amount of firming capacity, such as pumped hydro or gas plants.
A step-change scenario showing how the power grid will transition away from coal by 2043, according to the Integrated System Plan from Aemo. Photograph: Australian Energy Market Operator (Aemo)
"Australia is experiencing a complex, rapid and irreversible energy transformation," Aemo's chief executive, Daniel Westerman, said.
"The most economic and reliable source of power for Australian homes and businesses is firmed renewables connected with efficiently delivered transmission."
Without these, the prospect of "reliable, affordable and secure energy to all Australians" will diminish, he said.
The federal climate change and energy minister, Chris Bowen, has talked up the role of the ISP in laying the foundation for the Albanese government's plan to accelerate the transformation of the power grid. Not only can generators reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions, they can enable transport and industry to exit fossil fuels.
"I look forward to working with my fellow energy ministers to modernise the grid, implement the ISP and provide the country with more renewables, more transmission and more storage," Bowen told the National Press Club on Wednesday.
The ISP offers four main scenarios on the pathway to reach net zero emissions by 2050. The most likely scenario, called the Step Change, projects all coal-fired power plants to exit the market by 2043.
It forecasts the grid will lose 14GW of coal plants by 2030, or more than half the 23GW still in the national electricity market. The report said that "coal plant owners have yet announced only 8.4GW in withdrawals", implying that further withdrawals amounting to double the size of Australia's biggest plant - Origin's Eraring - are still to be announced.
The role of gas-fired power plants is more ambiguous. While the market will still need about 10GW of such plants by 2050 - down from about 11GW now - it is less clear how much they will be needed as batteries and other storage comes online. The availability of biomass (for biofuel) or hydrogen could also cut the need for fossil gas fields.
"We are seeing through the investments that are being made, such as [EnergyAustralia's] Tallawarra B and [Snowy Hydro's] Kurri Kurri, plants are being made hydrogen-ready," Westerman said. "That just points to the future proofing of individual investments" with individual investors looking to make them "as carbon neutral as possible".
The ISP's emphasis on the development of big transmission lines reflects the need to have grid connections in the right places and in time to accommodate the required large expansion of wind and solar farms. Overall power demand will double from present levels to 320TWh a year by 2050, while Australia becoming a hydrogen exporting "superpower" would quadruple it.
The key transmission projects will cost $12.7bn but deliver more than double that ($28bn) in "net market benefits", the ISP said.
For the optimal development path, five projects were identified as "immediately actionable": HumeLink, VNI West, Marinus Link, Sydney Ring and New England REZ Transmission Link.
HumeLink, important for connecting the multi-billion dollar Snowy 2.0 pumped hydro scheme is earmarked as necessary by July 2026.
"The value of the [$3.3bn] project is in mitigating the risk that not enough dispatchable capacity is available if there are early coal closures in the period 2026 to 2028," the report said. "That risk may be realised if a third New South Wales coal-fired power station (including Liddell) retires, and two of those four closures have already been announced as likely to occur by 2025."
Bowen on Wednesday confirmed media reports that Snowy 2.0 could be delayed 18 months behind the end-2026 completion date. Snowy Hydro, the project's commonwealth-owned developer, is yet to formally update Aemo, but is expected declare the delay within months.
Notable in the ISP was the lack of a projection of offshore wind development contributing to the share of renewables. That's despite the Victorian government relying on new projects in Bass Strait for as much as 4GW capacity by 2035 and 9GW by 2040 for its emissions reduction goals.
The ISP investigated the impact of offshore wind and may include it in future updates of the blueprint, such as in 2024.
The ISP made only fleeting references to the other lately contentious area of energy policy debate: whether a special mechanism needs to be added to the national electricity market to pay for spare capacity to reduce the risk of unexpected supply crunches, as experienced in eastern states early this month.
"I do think that the capacity mechanism will play an important role in making sure that we do have the firming generation that's available to then unlock investment in cheap, low-cost and zero-carbon renewables," Westerman said.
Australia is making rapid progress compared with many other regions. "On a per capita basis, Australia added over four times the variable renewable energy the EU did in 2018, and five times in 2019," the ISP report said.
"In the last two years, through the pandemic, [variable renewable energy] development accelerated, with 40% more now committed or anticipated to be connected to the grid by 2023-24 than was forecast in the 2020 ISP."
#213

The Labour leader, Keir Starmer, is to call for a ban on crippling energy price rises this autumn in a move that would save the average household more than £2,000 a year on gas and electricity bills, the Observer can reveal.
The demand to freeze the energy price cap at the current £1,971 level - blocking the regulator Ofgem from allowing a huge anticipated rise to around £3,600 in October - will place intense pressure on the Tory leadership candidates Liz Truss and Rishi Sunak to follow suit when one becomes prime minister.
Starmer's plan, to be announced on Monday, comes as 70 of the country's biggest charities and organisations across health, mental health, education, care and other sectors, today warn Truss and Sunak in a joint letter of dire consequences throughout British society unless they take more drastic action to address the energy and wider cost of living crises.
Paul Kissack, the chief executive of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (JRF), which co-ordinated the letter, said the UK faces a "national emergency" while the government is "asleep at the wheel".
Demanding urgent help for the most vulnerable, in the form of a doubling of the £1,200 that was committed earlier this year to households on means-tested benefits, Kissack said: "Without it, vulnerable people will face a catastrophe on a vast scale when winter sets in. The consequences of sitting idly by are unthinkable."
Starmer, who returned from holiday at the end of last week, has come under pressure to say more on energy prices after former Labour leader Gordon Brown made the running with a series of major interventions.
In the Observer last weekend, Brown called for an emergency budget. He has also demanded the freezing of the price cap, as well as the temporary nationalisation of energy companies which refuse to offer lower bills.
In a pointed remark which some saw as a glancing reference to Starmer, Brown wrote in the Guardian last week: "Time and tide wait for no one. Neither do crises. They don't take holidays and politely hang fire."
It is understood that Starmer will call on the government to instruct Ofgem to freeze the cap on bills, saying it is within its power to do so.
Senior sources said the choice for Labour had been between supporting huge amounts of extra cash help to the most vulnerable or preventing a massive autumn hike in energy prices happening at source. "It seemed best to stop the rise happening in the first place," said a senior insider.
In response to rapidly rising wholesale prices, Ofgem warned in May that the cap would have to rise by around 40% to about £2,800 in October. Since then, forecasts have shot up, with analysts at Cornwall Insight last week predicting an increase of £3,582, more than 80% higher than the current limit. They also forecast further increases to £4,266 in the first quarter of 2023.
New analysis for the Institute for Public Policy Research thinktank, commissioned by the Economic Change Unit, finds that freezing the price cap would not only save families more than £2,000 but also help peg back inflation, preventing it from being "embedded" in the economy.
The research says that if the cap were to be lifted to £3,600, as predicted, inflation would soar to around 13%, but if it were frozen at £1,917, inflation would be held at 9.2%.
Sarah-Jayne Clifton, executive director of the Economic Change Unit, said it was time for government to act and make energy companies pay: "Other countries have held down prices to protect the financial security of citizens. There is absolutely no reason why our government can't do the same and shift the burden on to those profiteering from this crisis."
The energy price cap, introduced in 2019, limits the maximum amount energy suppliers can charge for each unit of gas and electricity used.
In their letter to Sunak and Truss the 70 charities and other organisations, including JRF, AgeUK, Trussell Trust, Children's Society, the TUC, Shelter, MacMillan Cancer Support, Mind, Oxfam GB and Action for Children, tell the Tory leadership candidates that "the cost of living crisis on low-income households is the gravest issue our country faces".
They add: "So far this year, nearly three-quarters of low-income households receiving universal credit or other means-tested benefits, many of them working families, have been forced to go without at least one essential. This means people having to skip meals or not being able to heat their homes properly.
"Many of our organisations work directly with these families and are becoming overwhelmed, too often unable to provide the support so desperately needed.
"This situation cannot be allowed to continue. As the prospective leaders of this country, we urge you to act now to demonstrate the compassion and leadership needed to tackle this issue head on."
Isabel Hughes, policy engagement manager at the Food Foundation, who also signed the letter, said: "Continuing price rises and the approach of winter will continue to make life harder for low-income families, and those who have received proportionally less support so far are at particular risk. The government urgently needs to shield families from the worst impacts to protect children's health and future."
New polling for the Liberal Democrats, who also back a cap freeze, on Sunday reveal that seven out of 10 Tory voters back plans to cancel the October rise. The party leader, Ed Davey, said the move should be funded through "a tougher windfall tax on the energy giants making record profits".
Labour said last night its plans to insulate more homes would save millions of families more than £1,000. Ed Miliband, the shadow climate change and net zero secretary, said: "Twelve years of failure by the Conservatives to insulate our homes is one of the reasons bills are so high. Too many working people and pensioners live in draughty, cold homes with high heating costs. If they were serious about cutting bills, they could start right now, by delivering the warm homes plan Labour has called for. A proper national mission would save 19 million families over £1,000 on bills and boost our energy security."
#214
Households in Great Britain face a leap in energy bills from October after the regulator raised the energy price cap, taking the average gas and electricity bill to £3,549 a year.
In a blow for hard-pressed consumers already struggling with soaring inflation, Ofgem approved the £1,578 increase on the current figure of £1,971 for the average dual-fuel tariff - a rise of 80%.
The cap will be almost treble what it was a year earlier last October, when it was raised to £1,277.
The announcement comes as households attempt to budget for a tough winter. Soaring energy bills have fuelled rampant inflation, which breached 10% last month and is forecast by some economists to climb to 18% from January.
The next cap will be introduced in January. The energy consultancy firm Cornwall Insight on Friday raised its forecasts for that announcement to £5,387, from a previous prediction of £4,650, while it increased its estimate for the April cap to £6,616, up from £5,341.
Ofgem said it will not give projections for the January measure because the market remains "too volatile" but warned that prices "could get significantly worse through 2023". The new cap will affect 24 million households - about 85% of the population.
That number includes about 4.5 million prepayment meter customers, who will pay on average an additional £59 a year.
Ofgem's announcement will pile further pressure on the government to urgently introduce further measures to help households this winter. The victor in the Tory leadership contest between Liz Truss and Rishi Sunak is expected to announce a plan shortly after the race's conclusion on 5 September.
Jonathan Brearley, the chief executive of Ofgem, said: "We know the massive impact this price cap increase will have on households across Britain and the difficult decisions consumers will now have to make. I talk to customers regularly and I know that today's news will be very worrying for many."
Brearley said Russia's invasion of Ukraine and reduction of gas supplies to Europe had driven the rise in wholesale gas prices. He said that had left Ofgem "no choice" but to reflect cost increases in the price cap.
He added: "The government support package is delivering help right now but it's clear the new prime minister will need to act further to tackle the impact of the price rises that are coming in October and next year.
"We are working with ministers, consumer groups and industry on a set of options for the incoming prime minister that will require urgent action."
Brearley told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that "the truth is, this is beyond the capacity of the regulator and the industry to address". He said the next prime minister needs "to act urgently and decisively" to tackle the situation.
The Ofgem boss said winter gas prices were 15 times higher than normal conditions, and were equivalent to paying £400 to £500 to fill up a car with petrol.
He advised people struggling with their bills to contact their energy company "proactively".
A government spokesperson said the civil service was "making the appropriate preparations in order to ensure that any additional support or commitments on cost of living can be delivered as quickly as possible when the new prime minister is in place".
The consumer champion Martin Lewis called on the next prime minister to announce a new package as soon as possible. He said: "We must hope that when we have somebody in place they will come up with a robust, firm, strong policy that we can all get behind that feeds people and heats people so that we don't have people dying because of these price caps this winter. That's what my fingers are crossed tightly for."
The price cap is not a maximum bill a household can be charged and merely sets a limit on standing charges and the price that be charged per unit, so bills could be even higher for above average energy users. Lewis said there was "nothing stopping somebody from paying £10,000 a year".
Isaac Delestre, a research economist at the Institute for Fiscal Studies thinktank, said the new cap means "typical bills for this financial year will be 27% higher than what had been expected when the last support package was announced in May".
The £3,549 benchmark will take effect from 1 October 2022 but Ofgem said it is possible some suppliers may begin increasing direct debits before this date to spread the cost.
The price cap was introduced in 2019 in an effort to protect customers from being ripped off. However, rising wholesale gas costs caused a string of energy suppliers to go bust as they were squeezed by the cap, unable to pass on those costs to customers.
Earlier this month, the energy regulator confirmed the cap would be reviewed quarterly rather than every six months. Ofgem said the change would allow it to "adjust much more quickly" to volatility in the market. Some industry watchers have questioned whether the cap is viable in the long term.
#215


A Tory MP has been urged to quit his second job as a £325-an-hour adviser to a US fossil fuel firm after the company was accused of using "classic climate denial" tactics to delay action on the climate crisis.
Mark Pritchard, 55, Conservative MP for the Wrekin in Shropshire, took on a role providing "strategic communications advice" to Linden Energy Holdings in May, official records show. He will be paid £46,800 a year for working 12 hours a month through his consulting company, Map Advisory.
Documents obtained by the Observer suggest Texas-based Linden Energy - founded by a former lobbyist for George Bush - pushed for the increased use of fossil fuels while downplaying the role of carbon emissions in the climate crisis.
In a November 2021 presentation entitled "The reality of climate change", Linden Energy's chief operating officer, Ray Leonard, emphasises non-human factors in global warming and claims it is "virtually impossible" to avoid 2C warming by 2050, before arguing for more investment in natural gas.
While there is no suggestion of wrongdoing, the findings have led to renewed calls for tighter rules on MPs' second jobs, as well as fresh concerns about fossil fuel lobbying.
Scientists have been warning of potentially catastrophic climate breakdown since the 1980s, but attempts by industry lobbyists to cast doubt on the science have been blamed for delaying the responses of governments around the world.
Last year, following a series of lobbying scandals, Boris Johnson gave his backing to proposals to clamp down on MPs taking second jobs as consultants and lobbyists. The plans were later dropped.
This weekend, the Green Party called on Pritchard to quit his role with Linden, while Edward Collins, a director at the InfluenceMap thinktank, which tracks lobbying by polluting industries, described the issue as "highly concerning". "Tactics like retaining serving politicians for consultancy advice are part of a well-developed playbook from the fossil fuels industry," he said.
Linden Energy Holdings was founded in 2013 by Steve Payne, a former adviser to George W Bush. He resigned in 2008 in a scandal involving him being secretly taped offering access to top White House figures in exchange for a $250,000 donation.
The company is understood to have several projects under consideration in Europe and last year bought a majority stake in Overgas, Bulgaria's biggest gas company. It has also led ventures to exploit natural gas reserves in Africa, including drilling deep-water exploration wells off the coast of Guinea.
Another company under the Linden umbrella, Linden Strategies, specialises in government relations, strategic communications and political consulting, and has clients across several sectors. Its slogan is: "Complex Issues. Discrete Strategies. Winning Results." Payne is president of both companies.
In the internal Linden Energy documents, understood to be part of the company's pitch to potential clients, the firm is accused of using "well known climate delay tactics" including "doomism", the suggestion that it is not possible to avert global warming so mitigation is futile.
Linden's presentation argues that averting 2C temperature rise by the 2050s is "virtually impossible", and that the steps needed have "no realistic possibility of being accomplished".
It also devotes several slides to the "many factors" that have caused the climate crisis, emphasising "natural causes" and showing temperature change graphs over millions of years - despite the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's finding that almost 100% of warming since the 1950s has been caused by humans.
The presentation concludes by calling for more investment in fossil fuels and says a transition to natural gas could make "the biggest difference now" in reducing carbon emissions. Natural gas is cleaner than oil and coal, but experts say all fossil fuels must be phased out.
Mark Maslin, a professor of Earth system science at University College London, said Linden Energy's presentation was "riddled with soft denial" and appeared to be "a continuation" of attempts by the fossil fuel industry to delay action on the climate emergency. "It's saying, 'Oh well, it's not really all about greenhouse gases, so you don't have to worry so much,' and 'Climate change is happening but it's impossible [to avert], so let's not worry about it.' This is classic denial 101," he said.
The Green Party co-leader, Adrian Ramsay, said it was unacceptable that a serving MP could be working for a firm that "appeared to be peddling climate denialism designed to keep us all reliant on oil and gas" at a time when "the UK is seeing the effects of climate inaction", with soaring energy bills and extreme heat.
"The interests of fossil fuel companies should have no place at the heart of our democracy," he said. "I would urge the government to force Mr Pritchard to choose between his new job in the industry and his position as an MP."
There are also questions over why Pritchard's role, listed in the MPs' register of interests, was not declared until July. According to the entry, he was first paid by Linden Energy on 6 June. but took up the role on 1 May.
MPs are required to register all relevant interests, not just financial ones, within 28 days, including "any interest which someone might reasonably consider to influence their actions or words as an MP".
Neither Pritchard nor Linden Energy Holdings responded to formal requests for comment. In a phone call with the Observer, Ray Leonard said his views were shared by many and that his presentation did not emphasise non-human factors or use "climate denial" tactics but "showed the data".
#216
The escalating rollout of gas for heating, electricity and cooking is turning it into the "new coal" and its use worldwide must be slashed by nearly a third this decade to avoid disastrous climate effects, according to a new report.
Gas has often been referred to as a "bridge fuel" as it emits about half the carbon dioxide of coal, and many countries have embraced it while also promising to transition to renewable energy in order to cut planet-heating emissions.
But this energy source, which has become easy and cheap to access due to the advance of fracking for its extraction, is still a fossil fuel, and the new analysis finds that it is now the fastest-growing source of carbon dioxide emissions, putting the world at risk of blowing past dangerous global heating thresholds.
"Natural gas is not a bridging fuel. It is a fossil fuel," said Bill Hare, chief executive of Climate Analytics and lead author of the new report. "Gas is the new coal. Governments, investors and the financial sector must treat it the same way as they do coal: phase it out as soon as possible."
The UK government, which is hosting crucial UN climate talks under way in Glasgow, has vowed to help "consign coal to history", with the summit producing an agreement signed by more than 40 countries, including major users Indonesia, Vietnam and South Korea, to phase out the carbon-intensive fuel.
The focus on eliminating coal comes as countries such as the US and Australia have ramped up their use of supposedly cleaner sources of gas and sought to cash in on a global export market of liquified gas with new infrastructure to ship it around the world.
But growth in gas has had a significant influence over global heating, with the Climate Analytics report finding that gas was the largest source of carbon dioxide emissions increase in the past decade, rising by 42% and causing 60% of the methane emissions from fossil fuel production. Methane is a short-lived but potent greenhouse gas that is many times more powerful than CO2 at trapping heat.
If the world is to avert disastrous 1.5C of global heating the use of gas should already be in decline, according to the report, but it is projected to cause 70% of the fossil CO2 emissions increase by 2030 under current policies.
This means unabated gas use must peak this decade and then drop sharply, the analysis finds, necessitating a decrease of 30% below last year's levels by 2030 and then a 65% decrease by 2040. Renewable energy such as solar and wind should be ramped up to take the place of gas, according to the report.
Hare said that governments need to be questioned as to why they are not targeting gas as well as coal. "Ultimately, gas is a bridge to nowhere," he said.
#217
Households will face a record energy bill increase of 54% from April after the regulator lifted the cap on default tariffs to £1,971.
The energy regulator, Ofgem, lifted the maximum rate that suppliers can charge for an average dual-fuel energy tariff by £693, to reflect the fourfold increase in energy market prices over the last year.
The hike means that 22 million households which pay by direct debit will face an average of bill of £1,971 a year for their gas and electricity. Homes using a pre-pay meter, which are typically more vulnerable, will on average face a steeper hike of £708 and an annual bill of £2,017.
Jonathan Brearley, the chief executive of Ofgem, said: "We know this rise will be extremely worrying for many people, especially those who are struggling to make ends meet, and Ofgem will ensure energy companies support their customers in any way they can."
The second major increase in energy bills in six months, and the largest on record, is expected to drive millions of households into fuel poverty for the first time.
The blow to household finances has prompted the Treasury to offer households a one-off £200 discount on their energy bills this October, which they would be required to pay back in instalments of £40 a year over the next five years.
The discount has been offered alongside a £150 rebate on council tax bills from April as part of a £9bn package from the Treasury designed to "take the sting" out the cost of living crisis.
"The energy market has faced a huge challenge due to the unprecedented increase in global gas prices, a once in a 30-year event, and Ofgem's role as energy regulator is to ensure that, under the price cap, energy companies can only charge a fair price based on the true cost of supplying electricity and gas," Brearley added.
The price cap increase is calculated by Ofgem based on the costs faced by suppliers, including buying energy from the wholesale market and levies for maintaining energy network infrastructure and renewable energy projects.
The regulator raised the cap to £1,277 last autumn after the UK's gas market reached a record high in September. Experts have warned that an even greater energy bill hike, to an average of around £2,300 a year, could take effect from October this year after the global gas supply crunch fuelled further energy wholesale price spikes in recent months.
Brearley said the regulator was "working to stabilise the market" through a series of proposals to make sure energy suppliers are more financially resilient to major market shocks which it plans to set out on Friday.
#218
The world can still limit global heating to 1.5C, and to claim that the target is now out of reach is to play into the hands of fossil fuel proponents, the world's leading energy economist has warned.
Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency, the global authority on energy, slammed scientists and activists who have claimed that the recent Cop27 UN climate summit killed off hopes for the crucial 1.5C limit.
"It is factually incorrect, and politically it is very wrong," said Birol. "The fact is that the chances of 1.5C are narrowing, but it is still achievable."
Birol said that the claims that the 1.5C limit was dead were coming from an "unusual coalition" of scientists, activists and fossil fuel industry "incumbents".
"I find the emerging chorus of this unusual coalition of people saying 1.5C is dead factually and politically wrong," he told the Guardian. "They are jumping to conclusions that are not borne out by the data."
He added that the claims were "unhelpful" to efforts to shift the global economy to a low-carbon footing. "They are making a mistake. Proponents of the existing energy systems will be the beneficiaries if the obituary of 1.5C is written," he warned.
Investors and financial institutions could be put off by a chorus of claims that 1.5C was dead, he added. "They will react with lower ambition," he warned.
Birol pointed to the surge in clean energy investment this year, in the wake of the Ukraine war and soaring fossil fuel prices. He added that countries' current targets on reaching net zero greenhouse gas emissions would result in a temperature rise of 1.7C, if all pledges were fulfilled, which was within striking distance of the 1.5C limit.
"It is factually wrong [to say 1.5C is dead] and we are an evidence-based organisation," said Birol. "What I look at are the numbers. To say that 1.5C is dead and that we will never reach a peak [in emissions] before 2030 is dogmatic and in my view not a data-driven conclusion."
The goal of limiting global temperature rises to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels, in line with repeated scientific advice, came under attack from some countries at the two-week Cop27 summit in Sharm el-Sheikh earlier this month. In the final hours, attempts to strengthen the 1.5C limit were denied, owing to opposition from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states, along with, at some points, China, Brazil and a few others. A resolution to phase down fossil fuels, proposed by India and backed by at least 80 countries, was also removed from the final text.
In the end, participants such as the UK and the EU, which were pushing for a stronger commitment on 1.5C that would require countries to come forward with firmer policies to meet the goal, said they were "disappointed" with the result. Alok Sharma, the UK's president of the Cop26 summit in Glasgow last year, which focused on the 1.5C limit, expressed his frustration in the closing speeches of the conference. He said: "I said in Glasgow that the pulse of 1.5 degrees was weak. Unfortunately, it remains on life support. And all of us need to look ourselves in the mirror, and consider if we have fully risen to that challenge over the past two weeks."
Birol acknowledged that the outcome of the summit was weak on the 1.5C goal, but said countries must still keep pushing for it.
"Looked at from the point of view of energy, it would not be accurate to say that the global energy sector received a strong signal from Cop27," he conceded. "In the absence of such a clear signal, the message to key actors may seem a bit confused."
But he said the economics of the transition to clean energy were clear, with wind and solar power now cheaper than fossil fuels across much of the world, and that more countries were seeking to expand clean energy sources as a matter of national security and of industrial policy.
He pointed to global clean energy investments of $1.3tn, and said that with current policies, clean energy investments would reach $2tn a year by 2030, which would be an increase of about 50% from the beginning of the decade.
That amount of investment needs to double again, however, to stay within 1.5C. "That is extremely challenging, but it is not out of reach," Birol said.
Last year, the IEA, regarded as the global gold standard for energy data and policy advice, warned that no new fossil fuel development and exploration should take place if the world was to remain within 1.5C above pre-industrial levels. The organisation also predicts that global greenhouse gas emissions will peak in 2025.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the body of the world's leading climate scientists, has said emissions must be reduced by 45%, compared with 2010 levels, by 2030 to stay within 1.5C of pre-industrial temperatures.
The Cop27 summit also produced agreement on a fund for poor countries afflicted by the worst ravages of extreme weather, known as loss and damage. Birol said this was "a great achievement" and that countries must now concentrate on filling the fund.
"I would very much like to see money flowing into this fund as soon as possible, and in as meaningful sums as possible," he said.
#218
A carbon capture proposal for a central Louisiana power plant has been titled "Project Diamond Vault" by its owner, Louisiana utility Cleco. The utility says the project will have "precious value" to the company, customers and state.
Yet less than six months after announcing the project to capture carbon from the plant's emissions and store them underground near the plant, Cleco revealed in a recent filing to its state regulator the $900m carbon capture retrofit could reduce electricity produced for its customers by about 30%.
Cleco maintains it hasn't committed to this path. But, if it decides to produce additional power necessary to run the carbon capture process, it could increase the plant's water use by about 55%, according to studies of similar power plants.
The Louisiana project is not an outlier.
Operating enough carbon capture to keep the climate crisis in check would double humanity's water use, according to University of California, Berkeley researchers. Regardless of the method being used - on a power plant or capturing carbon directly from the air - more power and more water will be needed.
The Cleco proposal provides an object lesson in how one solution can exacerbate another problem.
Carbon capture equipment increases energy use, which means more water is needed to cool equipment. Photograph: Nicole Kelner/Floodlight
"These technologies to mitigate climate change have unintended environmental impacts, like water use and water scarcity," said Lorenzo Rosa, a principal investigator at Carnegie Institution for Science at Stanford. Carbon capture and sequestration increases water withdrawals at power plants between 25% and 200%, according to an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report that cites Rosa's work.
The same IPCC report says carbon capture could help reduce the fossil fuel pollution that is heating the planet's climate and causing more extreme weather.
The power generation unit to which Cleco plans to add carbon capture technology - the Madison 3 unit - makes electricity by burning 70% petroleum coke, a byproduct of oil refining, and 30% coal. It's been estimated that retrofitting a coal-fired power plant with carbon capture technology could increase that plant's water use 55%. A similar increase could be expected for retrofitting a petcoke power plant, Rosa said.
Cleco, however, told Floodlight it can't definitively say how much power and electricity the carbon capture process will use until initial designs and studies are complete in 2024. "Cleco is committed to research and engineering at the highest level and cannot speculate on the findings of the study," the company said in an emailed response.
The proposed carbon capture technology for the plant chemically strips carbon from the exhaust of fossil fuel-burning facilities. Cleco expects that running the carbon capture equipment will use 200 megawatts of electricity, according to a recent Louisiana Public Service Commission filing. That's about a third of the 641-megawatt power station's current capacity.
The industry says retrofitting certain fossil fuel-burning power plants is cheaper than shutting down the facilities and building renewable energy. To offset the cost of the technology, companies can use the carbon to force more oil out of ageing oilfields.
Adding the technology to power plants is expensive. Wyoming, which produces 40% of the nation's coal, passed a law requiring electric utilities to produce some of their power from coal-burning power plants with carbon capture. So far, that's proved unfeasible as power companies have warned the technology would probably increase water use and could increase residential electricity bills by as much as $100 a month. A study by Energy Innovation: Policy and Technology found coal plants retrofitted with carbon capture technology were three times more expensive than wind power and twice as expensive as solar.
Despite the problems, the push for carbon capture in the state is moving ahead. Louisiana's Gov. John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, praised the Cleco project, saying at the Project Diamond Vault announcement that it and similar projects to reduce energy climate pollution are critical for the state.
More than a dozen carbon capture projects have been proposed in Louisiana as lawmakers and industry leaders pitch carbon capture as a solution to the state's industrial carbon emissions. Louisiana is one of the nation's top emitters of carbon dioxide, and Project Diamond Vault is the only carbon capture proposal for a power plant in the state. The other proposals deal with other industrial processes or carbon storage.
Last year's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law allocated $12bn in federal funding toward carbon capture and storage technologies, and August's Inflation Reduction Act creates tax breaks for power plants and industrial facilities that pursue carbon capture and storage (CCS). The federal support for the technology is critical: no industrial-scale power plant in the US currently uses CCS, largely because it is costly, according to the Congressional Research Service.
The need for additional water for carbon capture would strain drier regions of the country. But even in Louisiana, which gets more rain on average than any other of the 48 contiguous states, additional water use could be problematic. It doesn't have a statewide water management plan and in some areas, groundwater is being sucked up faster than it can be replenished. Power generation is by far the biggest freshwater user.
"To assume this water is available is a mistake," said Mark Davis, director of the Tulane Institute on Water Resources Law and Policy said of the water needed for CCS. "It's a mistake that can be avoided."
Cleco has three power generation units that pump up to a combined 700,000 gallons of water a minute from adjacent Lake Rodemacher to cool equipment, according to 2021 US Energy Information Administration data. In 2015, power generation accounted for about 98% of surface water withdrawals in Rapides Parish, where Cleco's Rodemacher Power Station is located, according to the state's most recent five-year water use report.
Water policy experts have raised concerns about Louisiana's lack of a statewide management plan before, most recently when hydraulic fracturing for natural gas and oil became common in the state. The growth of hydraulic fracturing, which uses millions of gallons of water, in northwest Louisiana, prompted legislators to enact a voluntary surface water management program in 2010.
Earlier this year, Sen. Robert Mills, a north Louisiana Republican lawmaker, introduced a bill aimed at making the agreements mandatory, which would have forced companies to pay for the water they take from rivers and lakes. Oil and gas lobbyists blocked the proposal, Mills said.
"We've been giving away water for all this time," Mills said. "The state's constitution says you can't give away something of value."
The legislation died in committee, with no legislator moving to push it forward.
"We've got plenty of water today," Mills said. "But what about tomorrow?"
#219
The French government plans to spend €45bn shielding households and businesses from energy price shocks in a budget focused on bringing down inflation.
The finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, said the increase in the cost of gas and electricity would be capped at 15% from January. Gas and electricity price rises are currently capped at 4% until the end of the year in what is known as the bouclier tarifaire (tariff shield).
Outlining key elements of his 2023 budget bill on Monday, Le Maire said it was financed "down to the last euro" and the government's No 1 priority was fighting inflation at a time of unprecedented uncertainty due to Russia's war against Ukraine.
"The most important and the most urgent challenge for France and other European nations is to bring down the inflation pressure," the minister told journalists on Monday. "We don't want to increase taxes and we want to protect households," he added.
Special levies on energy companies were expected to reduce the net cost to the country of the price cap from €45bn to €12bn. Le Maire said €3bn would be set aside to help French companies threatened by soaring energy prices particularly those "exposed to international competition".
The French state is the majority shareholder in EDF, the country's largest electricity supplier - it is engaged in taking full control of the company - and has a majority shareholding in Engie (formerly Gaz de France).
In an interview with Le Journal du Dimanche, the public accounts minister, Gabriel Attal, said the fuel price cap would "block the rise in gas and electricity bills at 15% instead of 120%". Without this year's 4% price cap, based on prices in November 2021 - three months before Russia's invasion of Ukraine - the ministry estimated French bills would have risen 60% for gas and 45% for electricity.
"The budget we are presenting is [a] budget to protect," Attal said.
Income tax bands were also being increased next year by 5% to partially mitigate the effects of inflation, meaning someone earning €2,000 a month would be €200 better off, Attal added. The top tax bracket for anyone earning more than €169,000 will remain at 45%.
Le Maire also announced pay increases for teachers as well as 10,000 new civil service jobs, including 2,000 new teachers, and the financing of 6,000 homes for refugees and asylum seekers.
He said inflation was expected to remain at about 6% in the coming months before dropping to 4% in 2023. The government's second priority was to maintain public spending to within 5% of the country's output with the aim of reducing it to the EU's limit of 3% of GDP by 2027, and to reduce the public debt - expected to rise to a record €270bn next year - from 2026, Le Maire added.
Economic forecasts from earlier this month suggest growth in France's economy will drop to 1% next year from 2.7% this year. However, the high council for public finance, an independent body, has said the government's growth forecasts are optimistic.
The government must push the budget through a fractious parliament having lost its majority in the Assemblée Nationale in legislative elections before the summer.
#220
Returning to coal-fired power generation in some parts of Europe has not prevented strong progress on cutting greenhouse gas emissions, data shows.
Emissions for November for the EU were at their lowest in at least 30 years, as were gas consumption, carbon from the power sector, and power generation from fossil fuels, according to the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air.
This month's freeze may result in more coal and gas being burned in December, after an unusually mild November. Germany missed its targets on cutting consumption of gas under the cold conditions, the German grid agency said.
But only a small proportion of last month's drop in fossil fuel use should be attributed to the weather, according to the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air analysis. The mild temperatures contributed a 6% reduction in gas demand outside the power sector - mostly for heating - while actual demand fell 26%. Within the power sector, milder temperatures can account for two percentage points of the 12% drop in demand, the analysts found.
Lauri Myllyvirta, a lead analyst and author of the report, said the data showed that accusations against the EU of falling back on climate commitments were wrong. "There has been a very widespread perception that Europe is going backwards on climate change, because of the Ukraine war," he said. "There were frequent remarks to that effect at Cop27, saying Europe was going back to coal. We are showing that has not been the case - there was a misreading of coal consumption."
Some member states, including Germany and Poland, have sought a limited return to burning coal for power generation in the face of soaring gas prices and supply constraints in after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The UK has also put coal-fired power plants on standby.
In November, the EU as a whole used less coal than in the same month last year, and than in the same month for the past three decades. Germany and Poland both used less coal than a year ago, though Finland slightly increased its coal use.
There were dramatic reductions in output from nuclear reactors in Germany and France. In Germany that was made up for by an increase in wind and solar generation, while France reduced its power demand substantially.
However, this month's cold spell, with temperatures about 5C lower than usual for the time of year, and snow and icy conditions across much of northern Europe, could stall progress on cutting fossil fuel use this winter.
Myllyvirta said: "Everything is conditional on the weather. If we have a big cold spell, we will see more gas burning."
He said early signs for December were that the trend for lower emissions was holding up. The first half of December had colder weather than the year before, he added, but total emissions remained well below 2021 levels, showing that the reduction in gas and electricity use was not mainly because of the weather.
However, power sector emissions started increasing again in December. Myllyvirta said the sector continued to be plagued by the poor performance of nuclear, and wind conditions were also poor, but reduced gas use outside the power sector kept emissions falling overall.
He added that the transformation of Europe's energy this year showed that the underlying trend was strongly away from fossil fuels. "If anyone had said a year ago that Europe could nearly eliminate reliance on Russian fossil fuels in 10 months, they would have been taken for a complete lunatic," he said. "But we have come quite close to doing so, and that is quite remarkable."
He added that governments should seek to protect their most vulnerable citizens from the dangerous effects of the energy price rises that have forced such a sudden change. Europe could go further in weaning itself off Russian energy, and fossil fuels in general, but that should be managed equitably, he said.
"It's unfortunate that so much of this reduction [in fossil fuel use] has happened through high prices, which is having major social and economic impacts," Myllyvirta said.
#221
Private equity firms pumping billions of dollars into dirty energy projects are exposing investors, including pensioners, to unknown financial risks as the planet burns and governments face escalating pressure to act, new research finds.
The first-of-its-kind climate risks scorecard ranks Carlyle, Warburg Pincus and KKR as the worst offenders among eight major private equity companies with significant fossil fuel portfolios.
All three continue investing heavily in greenhouse-gas-emitting projects with no adequate plan on transitioning away from oil and gas, according to the analysis by two financial watchdog non-profits of publicly available information. The firms also have scant transparency on political and climate lobbying, the report finds.
Private equity refers to an opaque form of financing away from public markets in which funds and investors buy and restructure companies including startups, troubled businesses and real estate operations.
The eight firms on the scorecard manage a combined $3.6tn in assets including about $216bn in energy projects - an amount equivalent to the fossil fuel financing by the world's five biggest banks last year.
Carlyle is rated F, the lowest in the climate credentials scorecard that has been created by the Private Equity Stakeholder Project (Pesp) and Americans for Financial Reform Education Fund (Afref).
More than three-quarters of Carlyle's energy investments are in fossil fuels, and just over 60% of its 2022 first half profits came through its subsidiary NGP Energy Capital, which focuses almost exclusively on oil and gas projects.
Last year Warburg Pincus announced that it would not seek further fossil fuel investments in its next buyout, yet since then its dirty energy portfolio has expanded.
KKR, one of the world's wealthiest private equity firms, has said it will continue to invest in fossil fuel projects despite publishing a climate action strategy.
Among the worst downstream polluters is Blackstone, which also scored a D rating, with its power plants emitting a combined 18.1m metric tonnes of planet-warming carbon dioxide in 2020 - equivalent to the annual emissions of nearly 4m gas-powered cars, according to the report.
Higher atmospheric and ocean temperatures are directly linked to the rise in catastrophic events such as drought, extreme temperatures and hurricanes, which in 2021 cost $152.6bn in the US alone.
"The scorecard provides important information and analysis that can help investors and communities understand what these firms are doing, and makes very clear that the firm's climate commitments are largely empty words, said Oscar Valdes Viera, research manager at Afref and co-author of the climate risks scorecard.
Globally, private equity manages trillions of dollars for wealthy individuals and institutional investors such as mutual funds, endowments and pension funds. The industry has invested an estimated $1tn in the energy sector since 2010, and while there's been growth in renewables, the lion's share is still in oil, gas and coal.
Yet unlike banks and other publicly listed companies, private equity firms are exempt from most financial disclosure rules, making it extremely difficult to track their assets - or risks. This means ordinary workers like firefighters, nurses and teachers - whose pension funds are invested in private equity funds - have little way of knowing if their retirement nest egg is tied up in fossil fuels, which scientists warn must be phased out to limit the extent of global heating.
Last week the federal reserve announced plans to require banks to assess the impact of the climate crisis and energy transition on their long-term financial position, but the US central bank has no power over private equity firms.
Earlier this year, the Guardian published a snapshot of the industry's involvement in some of the country's most controversial fossil fuel investments. The climate risk scorecard digs deeper into the risks surrounding dirty investments and ranks the worst offenders against each other.
Researchers assessed the climate credentials of Carlyle, Blackstone, Warburg Pincus, KKR, Ares, Brookfield/Oaktree, Apollo and TPG using publicly available information. The scorecard takes into account several transparency measures including the disclosure of emissions, political lobbying and energy transition plans - information that investors need to make informed risk assessments.
Asset managers typically hold on to companies for five years, so they could divest from fossil fuels this decade, yet only one firm, Brookfield/Oaktree (D rating) has reported even a partial plan on transitioning its portfolio away from polluting energy sources, the report found. The company's stated ambitions include achieving net zero emissions by 2050, after reducing them by two-thirds by 2030 across one-third of its assets. Currently, fossil fuels comprise 53% of Brookfield's energy portfolio. (Oaktree declined to provide information to researchers.)
"Private equity firms have created large climate risks for the investors providing the capital, especially as they act as fiduciaries of public sector workers' retirement savings. As societal sentiment grows in support of a clean energy economy, the risk of doubling down on dirty energy assets is becoming clear," said Riddhi Mehta-Neugebauer, Pesp climate research director.
A spokesperson for Carlyle said: "Carlyle's approach to invest in, not divest from, the energy transition is a different one, grounded in seeking real emissions reductions within portfolio companies over the long term."
Warburg Pincus said it was trying to be more transparent about greenhouse gas emissions and that it was "focusing all new energy investments in companies that will benefit from the transition to a low-carbon economy".
A Blackstone spokesperson said: "We have invested approximately $16bn in projects and companies that are consistent with the broader energy transition over the past three years."
KKR did not comment directly, but has previously said that investing in the energy transition is important for the environment, economy and national security.
The best performer was TPG, which scored a B rating thanks to its relatively small number of fossil fuel investments.
#222
A plan to coordinate the global introduction of clean technologies in order to rapidly drive down their cost has been agreed at the Cop26 summit by world leaders representing two-thirds of the world's economy.
A global transition to green energy and vehicles is vital in tackling the climate crisis, and economies of scale mean that costs plummet as production increases - as already seen with solar panels and LED lightbulbs.
More than 40 nations said they would align standards and coordinate investments to speed up production and bring forward the "tipping point" at which green technologies are more affordable and accessible than fossil-fuelled alternatives. At that point, the green transition and cuts in climate emissions accelerate rapidly towards a net zero economy.
Among the countries signed up to the Breakthrough Agenda are the UK, US, China, India, the EU and Australia. The first five breakthroughs will be clean electricity, electric vehicles, green steel, hydrogen and sustainable farming. The aim is to make these affordable and available to all nations by 2030 and create 20m new jobs.
"By making clean technology the most affordable, accessible and attractive choice, the default go-to in what are currently the most polluting sectors, we can cut emissions right around the world," said Boris Johnson, prime minister of the UK, which is hosting Cop26.

"The Glasgow Breakthroughs will turbocharge this forward, so that by 2030 clean technologies can be enjoyed everywhere, not only reducing emissions but also creating more jobs and greater prosperity," said Johnson, who launched a £3bn finance package on Monday to support green technology in developing countries.
New plans include a global electricity initiative launched by the UK and India and endorsed by 80 nations. The Green Grids Initiative aims to mobilise political will and finance to create international supergrids on all continents and to link up sunny deserts and windy coasts with population centres. By connecting many locations, supergrids are key to providing reliable electricity from renewable energy that may be locally intermittent.
Another new initiative is the Global Energy Alliance for People & Planet, which is focused on producing clean electricity across the global south. It has an initial $10bn from the World Bank, Rockefeller Foundation, Bezos Earth Fund and others. UK and Scandinavian pension funds also announced on Tuesday they would invest $130bn in clean energy by 2030.
The authors of a report published to support the Breakthrough Agenda concluded: "International collaboration can create faster innovations, larger economies of scale, and stronger incentives for investment, to accelerate progress towards tipping points where clean solutions become the most affordable, accessible and attractive options worldwide."
The Breakthrough Agenda follows other voluntary agreements at Cop26 on ending deforestation by 2030 and cutting global emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, by 30%. These commitments have been broadly welcomed, but some delegates warned that global heating would not be reduced unless the plans become reality. Nations at the two-week summit are also tasked with getting funding to poorer and vulnerable countries and finalising the rules of the 2015 Paris agreement.
The cost of solar panels, LED bulbs and lithium ion batteries have plunged by about 90% in the past decade, with solar and wind power now the cheapest power in most of the world. By coordinating signals to industry, policies and standards, research efforts and investments, the governments aim to drive production up and prices down for other technologies.
Electric cars are already cheaper to run than those burning fossil fuels and are close to the tipping point when they become cheaper to buy. Requiring carmakers across big markets to make a certain proportion of new cars electric, for example, could increase this.
The nations will coordinate to speed up the growth of markets, but will also compete to supply those markets. A recent study from Oxford University estimated the costs of clean energy technologies such as batteries and hydrogen electrolysers could fall by 45% by 2030 and 75% by 2050 with speedy deployment.
The private sector is involved in the Breakthrough Agenda with a "first movers coalition" of 25 global companies committing to buy emerging clean technologies in sectors such as steel, trucking, shipping, aviation and concrete. Firms are expected to include the shipping company Maersk and the cement maker Holcim.
In farming, coordinated rules for blocking imports of beef, soy, palm and cocoa linked to deforestation could hasten the end of forest destruction. A US-UAE initiative, backed by 30 countries, has gathered $4bn (£2.9bn) for investment in climate-smart agriculture.
World leaders have committed to discussing and strengthening global progress on breakthroughs every year, supported by reports led by the International Energy Agency.
The Economics of Energy Innovation and System Transition report was produced by experts from the UK, EU, Brazil, China, and India. "The policies that drove major breakthroughs in low-carbon technologies like wind and solar, were challenged by traditional economic advice, which ignored the role of innovation [in reducing costs] and framed climate policy as costly," said Prof Michael Grubb, at University College London and a co-author of the report. "We need to learn from these successes."
Prof Nicholas Stern, at the London School of Economics, said last week that most economists had badly underestimated the speed at which the costs of clean technologies fall and failed to take account of the "immense risks and potential loss of life" that could occur as a result of the climate crisis.
#223

SSE has rebuffed calls to break itself up, and announced a multi-billion pound plan to boost investment across its renewable energy and electricity networks businesses.
The FTSE 100 energy firm faces pressure from Elliott Management, an aggressive activist hedge fund, to split off its fast-growing renewable energy business. Elliott has built up a stake in the company this year.
Instead, SSE will expand its investment plan for the next five years to £12.5bn, from its previous target of £7.5bn, across its business in the areas which will help the UK reach its net zero climate targets.
By the end of the decade SSE plans to run a quarter of the UK's offshore windfarms, alongside its electricity grid networks in the north of Scotland and parts of England, and its planned fleet of flexible "low carbon" power plants.
Forty per cent of the extra £1bn of green investments every year to 2026 will go to its renewable energy business, 40% to its networks business, while the remaining 20% will be for the rest of the SSE business.
The spending spree strengthens the company's existing strategy in defiance of Elliot's calls to break up the company by splitting off its renewables business to increase the value of the group. The rationale is backed by industry analysts, including Bernstein which claims SSE is undervalued in the market.
SSE said it had "carefully considered a wide range of available strategic options", including the separation of its renewables division, but had concluded it would "not be the best route for growth, execution and value creation and was not therefore in the long-term interests of its stakeholders".
Alistair Phillips-Davies, the chief executive of SSE, said it had held robust discussions with its shareholders in which it had made a clear case that keeping the company together was central to the strategy it had set out until 2026.
He added that the scale of the business - across renewable energy, networks, and thermal power generation - was key to its ability to finance the large-scale project needed to meet the climate challenge.
Phillips-Davies said scales was important in being able "to tackle the biggest, most difficult projects this world" needed. "If you're half the size, you'll only get half the funding," he added.
However, SSE's share price plunged by 5% after the firm set out its plans, which include a surprise dividend cut of about 30% from the 2023-24 financial year to 60p a share, alongside plans to sell off a quarter of its electricity networks businesses, in order to fund the green spending.
Phillips-Davies said he looked forward to continued conversations with shareholders over the coming weeks about the company's strategy.
The Perthshire-based energy group, which sold off its energy supply business to Ovo Energy shortly before Covid-19 pandemic, reported a doubling of profits for the first half of the year compared with the year before despite a slowdown in wind speeds, which dented its renewable energy generation.
On a pre-tax basis SSE's half-year profits grew by 116% to £1.69bn.
The slowdown in wind speeds earlier this year, which has cut revenues for many major renewable energy companies, was "more than offset" by higher revenues in SSE's networks businesses with a further boost from other energy assets such as gas storage.
#224
The Czech Republic is facing an autumn of discontent after an estimated 70,000 demonstrators gathered in Prague to protest at soaring energy bills and demand an end to sanctions against Russia over the war in Ukraine.
Far-right and extreme-left elements coalesced at a "Czech Republic First" rally to call for a new agreement with Moscow over gas supplies and a halt to the sending of arms to Ukraine, while urging the centre-right government of the prime minister, Petr Fiala, to resign.
The demonstration in Wenceslas Square - historically a site of mass dissent in the Czech capital, Prague - appeared to spell an end to a relatively placid period of domestic politics since Fiala took office last December.
His five-party coalition had on Friday survived a parliamentary confidence vote, triggered by the opposition, which accuses the government of being unable to deal with rising domestic fuel bills and bring under control an inflation rate that has surged to 18%, among the highest in the EU.
The rally, part-organised by the far-right Freedom and Direct Democracy party (SPD) and the rump Communist party that once ruled the former Czechoslovakia, featured calls for military neutrality and complaints over the arrival of Ukrainian refugees. About 400,000 have been granted residence in the Czech Republic since Russia invaded Ukraine.
Alongside banners bearing slogans such as "The best for Ukrainians and two jumpers for us", Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková of the hard-right, anti-EU Trikolora party told protesters: "Fiala's government may be Ukrainian, it may be Brussels, but it is definitely not Czech."
Some demonstrators wore T-shirts praising the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, while others carried banners voicing anti-EU and anti-Nato sentiment. The Czech Republic has been among the western alliance's staunchest supporters of Ukraine.
Organisers have vowed to stage further rallies, with another planned for the symbolic date of 28 September, Czech state day, unless the government resigns by 25 September.
Fiala, the leader of the Civic Democratic party (ODS) and a former politics professor, dismissed the demonstration as extremist and fuelled by Russian propaganda.
He said: "The protest on Wenceslas Square was called by forces that are pro-Russian, are close to extreme positions and are against the interests of the Czech Republic. It is clear that Russian propaganda and disinformation campaigns are present on our territory and some people simply listen to them."
However, non-opposition voices have cautioned against the potentially calamitous consequences of the looming winter energy crisis, which Fiala is due to discuss with the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, when he visits Prague on Monday.
The justice minister, Pavel Blažek - a member of the prime minister's party - warned last week of the risk of riots and the fall of the government in the absence of an urgent solution. "If the energy crisis is not resolved, the political system of this country is at risk," he said.
Boris Cvek, a Czech commentator writing on the Britské Listy website, pointed to the number of people present. "When I read in the morning that there were 5,000 there, I waved my hand, thinking that there would be no more. By the afternoon, it was 70,000. That blew my mind," he said.
"The agenda is suspiciously reminiscent of Donald Trump's agenda. When we see how this man can threaten the very essence of even an old and experienced democracy such as the American one, it certainly should not leave us in peace."
#225
China's coal production reached record levels last year as the state encouraged miners to ramp up their fossil fuel output to safeguard the country's energy supplies through the winter gas crisis.
The world's biggest coal producer and consumer mined 384.67m tonnes of the fossil fuel last month, easily topping its previous record of 370.84m tonnes set in November, after the government called for miners to work at maximum capacity to help fuel the country's economic growth.
Official government figures show that China's coal binge also spurred the country to record high coal output over the year as a whole. Chinese coal production climbed to an all-time high of 4.07bn tonnes, up 4.7% on the previous year, in a blow to climate campaigners months after the UN's Cop26 climate talks in Glasgow.
The International Energy Agency (IEA) predicted that global consumption of coal power, which is the world's single biggest source of climate emissions, would reach record levels in 2021 driven by a surge in demand for energy to kickstart global economies following the coronavirus pandemic.
Coal power fell by 4% in 2020 as the pandemic caused a global economic slowdown, but the IEA found that the surge in demand for electricity during 2021 outpaced the growth in low-carbon sources, leading many wealthy economies to rely more heavily on fossil fuel power plants.
The IEA's most recent report, published last week, found the steepest ever increase in global electricity demand last year was stoked by a 9% increase in coal use compared with the year before, or more than half of the global increase in power demand, to reach an all-time peak.
China's record coal consumption comes weeks after the conclusion of the Cop26 climate talks, which ended in a fierce disagreement over a pledge to abandon coal. A last-minute intervention by India successfully watered down the language of the pact from "phasing out" to "phasing down".
After the talks, held in Glasgow last month, the Cop26 president, Alok Sharma, said India and China would "have to explain themselves to poor nations" after watering down the Glasgow climate pact, adding that their actions had left him "deeply frustrated".
The IEA found that coal plants in the US and the EU produced 20% more electricity last year, from low levels in 2020, but their use remained below the levels recorded in 2019. The reliance on coal plants is expected to decline again next year as electricity demand slows and the expansion of renewable energy alternatives continues.
#226
The Albanese government will continue to support new fossil fuel projects so long as they "stack up" from an economic and environmental perspective, the federal resources minister says.
Labor rejected the Greens' demand that there be no new fossil fuel projects during negotiations over the climate bill. The government is pushing states and territories to expand domestic gas supply as it attempts to shore up the local market.
Madeleine King, in a speech to the resources industry in Queensland on Thursday, praised the gas industry stating: "The government understands that natural gas is the ally of renewable energy and will support the addition of more intermittent energy sources."
The minister said she would work with producers as well as state and territory governments to "encourage new supply".
"Overall, even as we are moving to a decarbonised energy system, coal and gas will continue to heat our homes and keep manufacturing going for many years to come. In short, if projects involving these traditional energy sources stack up environmentally, economically, and socially, we will support them."
In its latest interim report into the nation's gas market, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission found the east coast gas market was facing a gas shortfall of 56 petajoules in 2023.
The gap is about 10% of annual domestic demand "signifying a substantial risk to Australia's energy security", the report stated. King said on Thursday the best solution for the tight market was to "boost supply".
"I applaud the Queensland government's commitment to increasing domestic gas supply to help avoid the forecast 2023 east coast shortfall," the minister said.
"Since 2015, the Queensland government has released more than 20,000 sq km for gas exploration that must be sold exclusively to the domestic market. I encourage the Queensland government to consider releasing even more acreage under its domestic gas reservation condition."
Earlier this month, the United Nations secretary general António Guterres pleaded with governments to wind back their reliance on fossil fuels.
"We seem trapped in a world where fossil fuel producers and financiers have humanity by the throat," Guterres said.
"For decades, the fossil fuel industry has invested heavily in pseudoscience and public relations, with a false narrative to minimise their responsibility for climate change and undermine ambitious climate policies. Nothing could be more clear or present than the danger of fossil fuel expansion."
In late July, Anthony Albanese ruled out banning fossil fuel projects, citing the risk to the Australian economy. The prime minister also suggested coal from other countries produced higher emissions "because of the quality of the product".
The Greens are now pushing for a legislated climate trigger, which would weigh up the impact of any new fossil fuel project on the climate, with spokesperson Sarah Hanson-Young saying stopping new mines was the only way humanity was "going to have any chance of survival".
"A climate trigger will go a long way to stopping dirty fossil fuel projects if they make the climate crisis worse," she said.
The Greens have vowed to fight Labor approving any future projects, including expanding gas exploration, arguing Australia has more than enough supply but it is being sent offshore.
The Greens leader, Adam Bandt, has said the party will leverage its power in the Senate to try and stop future projects.
"The fight to stop new coal and gas is already underway around the country, from the opening of the Beetaloo oil and gas basin, to the Scarborough, Barossa and Narrabri projects, and the Greens will be a big part of those fights."
#227

A public information campaign to encourage consumers to cut their gas usage this winter could save households nearly £400 and the Treasury £9bn, a study has shown.
An analysis by the cross-party thinktank the Social Market Foundation found that households could save between £250 and £400 a year if a UK campaign similar to Germany's national energy-awareness drive were launched.
The government has been criticised for not advising consumers to cut their gas and electricity consumption this winter in the face of high energy bills and concerns about power cuts. Germany was far more reliant than Britain on Russian gas before the invasion of Ukraine and its government has acted to conserve energy usage amid fears that the Kremlin may decide to cut off gas supplies entirely this winter.
Lights in some public buildings in Germany have been switched off, and in September the government launched a drive to encourage households to reduce their heating. The country's gas consumption has since dropped to between 20% and 37% lower than in previous years.
Britain is exposed to high prices and increased competition for gas as a result of the European crisis, leading to calls for a national effort to reduce consumption.
The Guardian revealed last month that Liz Truss' government was ready to push the button on a formal campaign but decided against it. It later emerged that Jacob Rees-Mogg, then business secretary, signed off a "light touch" £15m campaign to save consumers £300 a year on energy bills but the move was blocked by Truss, who opposed a "nanny state" intervention.
A government information website, Help for Households, was later updated with information on reducing boiler flows and draught-proofing windows but there has been no full-scale campaign. Advocates of a campaign say it would help consumers save money and reduce the strain on the electricity network.
National Grid has said Britain could face three-hour rolling power cuts in a worst-case scenario. The government has also re-examined its Programme Yarrow plans in the event of a nationwide blackout.
Reducing energy use would also deliver significant savings for the public finances, as the energy price guarantee policy, introduced by Truss, now means that taxpayers subsidise every unit of energy used in the UK. Social Market Foundation analysis of UK government data showed a 20% reduction in gas consumption would save customers £261 and the government £6.2bn while a 30% cut would amount to £392 or £9.3bn.
The German campaign stops short of forcing households to cut consumption, merely offering advice.
Jake Shepherd, a senior researcher at the Social Market Foundation, said: "Far from 'nannying' people, government guidance would empower them and, most importantly, help them save on their energy bills. Reducing energy use would deliver significant savings for the Treasury, potentially reducing the pressure on ministers to find money elsewhere with tax rises and spending cuts."
#228
Australia needs to accelerate the rollout of renewable energy, the chief executive of the country's second-biggest mining company, Rio Tinto, has said.
"We're just not developing renewable energy fast enough," Jakob Stausholm said, speaking after Rio's annual shareholder meeting in Melbourne.
The miner is a big energy consumer, but is currently trying to convert the iron ore operations in the Pilbara that drive its profitability to green sources of energy.
Stausholm said Rio had to focus on where it was getting energy from in the short term or it would be "creating problems" for itself.
"We need energy," he said.
"If renewable energy goes slow, we cannot phase out fossil fuel."
Rio's new chairperson, Dominic Barton, warned shareholders that an economic fissure between China and the west, similar to that which opened up with Russia due to its invasion of Ukraine, was unlikely but would have horrendous consequences.
Speaking at Rio's annual meeting on Thursday, Barton said that the relationship with China, the company's biggest customer and Australia's no 1 export market for iron ore, was important.
China has previously blocked Australian coal imports over the country's support of US foreign policy.
"If the world ever got to that point, if you think about the integration of the Chinese economy with the world economy, we are in a devastating situation," he said.
"The entire integration of the economies between China and the rest of the world is so deep, it is so completely different than Russia ... I think it would be horrendous."
Stausholm told investors he is trying to reset the company's culture after a disastrous two-year period that included blowing up ancient rock shelters at Juukan Gorge, stoushes with governments in Mongolia and Serbia and the exposure of a culture of racism, sexism and bullying within the global miner.
The Juukan Gorge debacle cost his predecessor, Jean-Sebastien Jacques, his job and also led to the exit of much of the company's top executive team.
However, Rio Tinto remains financially strong, declaring record profits and dividends off the back of an iron price that remains extremely high.
Stausholm again apologised to Rio workers who have been bullied or the victim of racism and sexism in the organisation - deep cultural failings that were laid bare in a report by the former sex discrimination commissioner Elizabeth Broderick, released in February.
"With the executive team's commitment, we can make a positive and lasting change and make Rio Tinto a less hierarchical, more humane place to work," he said.
The outgoing chairperson, Simon Thompson, who retired at the end of the shareholder meeting, said that climate change was "the defining issue for our age, and is at the heart of our new strategy".
He said the company had a "critical role" in the transition away from fossil fuels by supplying the copper, lithium, iron ore and aluminium needed to build renewable energy plants.
"With our suppliers, I think we do have very significant influence because frankly, they want our money," he said.
"We can, for example, say to Caterpillar and Komatsu that we're not going to buy diesel trucks beyond 2030."
Thompson said it was much harder to influence scope three emissions - those put out by Rio's customers.
Rio has released modelling on how the steel industry can decarbonise and hopes to have similar work done on the aluminium business, which is a heavy user of electricity, by the time of next year's AGM.
"The reason that we have not set quantifiable targets for scope three is because we cannot control the pace at which our customers, the steel mills, decarbonise their operations," he said.
"If we were to put targets out there, that to me would be close to lying, it would be greenwashing, because we would be setting hard quantifiable targets for something we don't control."
"Far from rhetoric and lying we are being very transparent, very honest about what we can do and we are setting very ambitious targets."
Stausholm agreed with a questioner who said Rio should already have had in place a workplace culture where people behaved respectfully towards each other. He said Rio management had not previously fully understood what was happening in the organisation.
"I think with the kind of things we've done ... we have a perfect starting point for all of us to take responsibility and build an absolutely terrific future culture," he said.
On Russia, Thompson said Rio would probably benefit if Rusal, its joint venture partner in a alumina refinery at Gladstone, in Queensland, was sanctioned over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Rio has taken full control of the company that runs the refinery, Queensland Alumina Ltd, after Australia slapped sanctions on key Rusal shareholders Oleg Deripaska and Viktor Vekselberg.
"If Rusal was to be sanctioned, that would certainly cause pretty significant disruption in the market because Rusal is a very big supplier of aluminium, particularly in Europe," he said.
"I actually think the impact on Rio Tinto would probably be positive in the sense that the aluminium price would likely go up."
#228

Cities in Germany are switching off spotlights on public monuments, turning off fountains, and imposing cold showers on municipal swimming pools and sports halls, as the country races to reduce its energy consumption in the face of a looming Russian gas crisis.
Hanover in north-west Germany on Wednesday became the first large city to announce energy-saving measures, including turning off hot water in the showers and bathrooms of city-run buildings and leisure centres.
Municipal buildings in the Lower Saxony state capital will only be heated from 1 October to 31 March, at no more than 20C (68F) room temperature, and ban the use of mobile air conditioning units and fan heaters. Nurseries, schools, care homes and hospitals are to be exempt from the saving measures.
"The situation is unpredictable," said the city's mayaor, Belit Onay, of the Green party. "Every kilowatt hour counts, and protecting critical infrastructure has to be a priority."
Hanover's 15% savings target is in line with the reductions the European Commission this week urged member states to make to ensure they can cope in the event of a total gas cutoff from Russia. Germany, which is more reliant on Russian gas imports than other European countries, is under pressure to lead the way.
In Berlin, the German capital, about 200 historic monuments and municipal buildings were shrouded in darkness on Wednesday night as the city switched off spotlights to save electricity. Monuments previously lit up at night include the Victory Column in Tiergarten park, the Memorial Church on Breitscheidplatz and the Jewish Museum.
"In the face of the war against Ukraine and Russia's energy threats it is vital that we handle our energy as carefully as possible," said Berlin's senator for the environment, Bettina Jarasch.
Germany uses most of its gas imports to heat homes and power its large industry. But while an energy emergency plan initiated in June enables utility firms to pass on high gas prices to customers, most private households in Germany pay their gas bills in set advance payments and have yet to directly experience the kind of dramatic increases that would change consumer behaviour.
On Thursday, Germany's government confirmed that a planned gas surcharge on customers could be much higher than previously expected, to save energy companies from going bankrupt in the coming months.
"We can't say yet how much gas will cost in November, but the bitter news is it's definitely a few hundred euros per household," said the economy minister, Robert Habeck.
Germany also uses gas to generate about 15% of its electricity needs, which is where municipal authorities have decided to make relatively painless savings.
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST
The city of Munich, in Germany's south, this week announced it would switch off spotlights on its town hall on Marienplatz square, which is usually lit up until 11pm, and have only cold water at municipal offices. Fountains would also be turned off at night.
Nuremberg is closing three of its four city-run indoor swimming pools and will keep its outdoor lidos open until 25 September.
In April, Berlin had announced measures to keep its outdoor swimming pools at two degrees below the weather-dependent standard temperature throughout the summer season.
#229
EU energy ministers have clashed over a plan to put a price cap on Russian gas, casting doubt on whether the measure will go ahead.
Speaking after emergency talks in Brussels in response to surging gas and electricity prices, the EU's energy commissioner, Kadri Simson, said "nothing is decided" on proposals to curb Russia's income.
Vladimir Putin has dismissed the idea as "stupid" and threatened to make Europe "freeze" this winter, if a cap is agreed. Russia has already slashed supplies to Europe and said it will not resume flows at previous volumes until the EU lifts sanctions. Russian supply makes up only 9% of EU gas imports, down from 40% before the invasion of Ukraine.
Simson defended the cap plan as reasonable. "The context of this measure is that Russia is gaining huge profits by manipulating and limiting, artificially, supply to drive up prices. And the cap would reduce these profits," she told reporters on Friday.
The 27 ministers began the meeting by holding a one-minute silence to mark the death of Queen Elizabeth II, while EU flags outside the Brussels institutions were lowered in tribute to half-mast.
There was more consensus over a proposal to cap the high price of EU-produced electricity from renewable sources, such as wind, solar and nuclear, and to reduce energy consumption across the region. The European Commission favours a mandatory 5% cut in electricity use during peak hours, according to a leaked paper seen by the Guardian.
The talks set the stage for a period of intense negotiations, with European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen expected to set out legal proposals on the EU's energy crisis response next Wednesday.
Countries that import large volumes from Russia, including Hungary, Slovakia and Austria, have spoken out against the cap proposal because they fear the Kremlin would halt all gas flows, plunging their countries into recession.
"If price restrictions were to be imposed exclusively on Russian gas, that would evidently lead to an immediate cut-off in Russian gas supplies," said Hungarian foreign minister Péter Szijjártó, who was attending the meeting. "It does not take a Nobel prize to recognise that."
About a dozen countries, including France and Poland, say the price cap should apply to all imported gas, including liquified natural gas. The EU energy commissioner voiced doubts about that approach, saying that a general price cap "could present a security of supply challenge".
Since the invasion of Ukraine, the EU has been scrambling to secure supplies shipped in from other countries, such as Qatar, Norway and the US, but it faces stiff competition from Asia. "Right now it is important that we can replace decreasing Russian volumes with alternative suppliers," Simson said.
Only the Baltic states, which have long argued for sanctions on Russian gas, gave full-throated support to the plan. Riina Sikkut, Estonia's minister for economic affairs and infrastructure, urged other members to ignore Putin's threats, saying: "It is blackmail, it is war that is waged outside Ukraine ... We have to have the political will to make Ukraine win."
Ministers were more aligned on dealing with a distortion in the energy market, which has seen renewable and nuclear energy companies reaping huge profits because the price of all electricity is pegged to the price of wholesale gas. The proposals are for a cap on power from wind, solar and nuclear, and the redistribution of revenues to vulnerable consumers and businesses.
Ministers also backed a plan to reduce demand for electricity, although Czech industry minister Jozef Síkela, who chaired the meeting, indicated that member states wanted voluntary targets, rather than a legally binding obligation.
"EU energy ministers have agreed the EU needs a comprehensive plan to face the ongoing energy crisis," said Simone Tagliapietra, a senior energy expert at the Bruegel think tank. "As all these measures are extraordinarily complex to be engineered, it will take a great political commitment by member states to quickly adopt them in the coming weeks. Europe is off for a grand bargain on energy."
#230
anada will return a repaired Russian turbine to Germany that it needs for the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline, despite objections from Ukraine, as the sanctions regime came up against the energy crisis sparked by the war.
Canada's minister of natural resources, Jonathan Wilkinson, said in a statement on Saturday the government was issuing a "time-limited and revocable permit" to exempt the return of turbines from its Russian sanctions, to support "Europe's ability to access reliable and affordable energy as they continue to transition away from Russian oil and gas".
Wilkinson said the export permit was issued after discussions with "our European friends and allies", and the International Energy Agency.
Russia's Gazprom cut capacity on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline from Russia to Europe to just 40% of usual levels last month, citing the delayed return of equipment being serviced by Germany's Siemens Energy in Canada. The Kremlin said on Friday it would increase gas supplies to Europe if the turbine were returned. The part is required for maintenance work due to start on Monday.
Canada - which has been under pressure from Germany to find a way to return the turbine - said "absent a necessary supply of natural gas, the German economy will suffer very significant hardship and Germans themselves will be at risk of being unable to heat their homes as winter approaches".
Alexandra Chyczij, national president of the Ukrainian Canadian Congress, said on Saturday "our community is deeply disappointed by the Canadian government's decision to bow to Russian blackmail".
The group said Canada was setting "a dangerous precedent that will lead to the weakening of the sanctions regime imposed on Russia".
Canada has one of the world's biggest Ukrainian diasporas outside of countries that border Ukraine and has urged the prime minister, Justin Trudeau, to refuse to compromise the country's sanctions against Russia over the turbine issue.
Ukraine has opposed Canada handing over the turbine and Kyiv believes such a move would flout sanctions on Russia, a Ukrainian energy ministry source told Reuters on Thursday.
Canada's foreign affairs minister, Melanie Joly, insisted on Saturday that "Canada is unwavering in its support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity ... Canada will not relent in pressuring the Russian regime."
Canada also announced it would expand sanctions against Russia's energy sector to include industrial manufacturing. The new sanctions "will apply to land and pipeline transport and the manufacturing of metals and of transport, computer, electronic and electrical equipment, as well as of machinery", it said.
The turbine would be sent to Germany first, which will then deliver it to Russia's state-controlled Gazprom, a government source told Reuters earlier this week.
The German government did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Saturday but confirmed on Friday that it received a positive signal from Canada regarding the turbine.
#231

Africa must embrace renewable energy, and forgo exploration of its potentially lucrative gas deposits to stave off climate disaster and bring access to clean energy to the hundreds of millions who lack it, leading experts on the continent have said.
Their call came as the UN secretary general, António Guterres, warned that exploring for gas and oil anywhere in the world would be "delusional".
Several African leaders are considering pushing for new investment in exploration as gas prices around the world soar. Some European countries are also eager to provide such investment to replace supplies from Russia.
Last week, Mary Robinson, a former president of Ireland, UN commissioner for human rights and UN climate envoy, stoked controversy when she backed an expansion, saying African countries should exploit their gas reserves.
She said the gas should be used within the continent for clean cooking and power generation for the 600 million people who lacked access to power and the 900 million who were cooking on biomass or dirty oil, rather than exported for profit.
Mohamed Adow, the director of the Power Shift Africa thinktank and 2020 winner of the Climate Breakthrough prize, said Robinson was wrong.
"For Africans to achieve the lives of dignity that energy access should bring, we cannot rely on the failed system of the last 200 years. We must leapfrog our thinking and make the investment into distributed renewable energy systems that won't poison our rivers, pollute our air, choke our lungs and profit only a few," he told the Guardian.
Making a distinction between voices from the west and those from Africa, he said: "Climate justice champions who actually live in Africa are very clear that we want access to energy for everyone - but equally we do not want to lock in climate catastrophe for everyone."
He was joined by Nnimmo Bassey, the director of the Health of Mother Earth Foundation in Nigeria. "Decades of oil and gas extraction on the continent has fed foreign markets and only muddied the water, built violence, and left the people in the cold and in the dark," he said, highlighting the experience of Nigeria, the Niger Delta and Mozambique, characterised by pollution and profiteering by a few while local people remained impoverished.
He accused political leaders of ignoring these concerns: "Sadly, African politicians acting as middlemen to transnational corporations are happy to parrot this song despite local resistance and the realities of ecocide in the fossil fuel fields."
Omar Elmawi, a coordinator at the StopEACOP campaign in east Africa, said: "Decades after exploiting fossil fuels in Africa, we have yet to improve energy poverty and countries have continued to drown themselves in unsustainable loans taken because of the promise of fossil fuel revenues.
"Corporations registered in the global north have continued to benefit from these dirty fossil fuels in Africa and all we are left with are the impacts on our people, nature and the climate."
The issue of gas in Africa is likely to prove a flashpoint at the Cop27 UN climate summit this November in Egypt. Robinson's views, first expressed in an interview with the Guardian, sparked a row at UN climate talks in Bonn, where countries have held meetings over the past fortnight in preparatory negotiations for Cop27.
Several African countries are thought to want to use Cop27 to argue for the continent to be allowed to exploit its gas, taking advantage of the fossil fuel bonanza that has followed Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Egypt is sympathetic, with the finance minister, Mohamed Maait, telling an audience in the City of London recently that poor countries must not be "punished".
However, Guterres made clear in a speech on Tuesday morning at the Austrian World Summit in Vienna that no new fossil fuels should receive investment.
He said: "New funding for fossil fuel exploration and production infrastructure is delusional. It will only further feed the scourge of war, pollution and climate catastrophe. The only true path to energy security, stable power prices, prosperity and a liveable planet lies in abandoning polluting fossil fuels, especially coal, and accelerating the renewables-based energy transition."
He did not refer to Africa specifically but indicated the continent was included, by adding: "Renewables are the peace plan of the 21st century. Cheaper, more reliable and fairer energy options are already available in the shape of wind and solar. This is true for all regions."
He called for a tripling of investment in renewables, the removal of red tape that blocked wind and solar projects and for more of the underlying technology to be made available for use in poor countries through the sharing of intellectual property known as technology transfer.
#232
Germany's planned exit from nuclear power by the end of this year has been officially delayed in order to shore up energy supplies during an expected shortfall this winter, the economic minister, Robert Habeck, announced on Tuesday.
The decision follows a shortage in supplies of electricity coming from France due to the fact that more than half of its nuclear power stations are offline, Habeck told journalists in Berlin.
He said that the resulting gap in electricity supplies was being "observed with concern", with Europe's energy network in danger of being put under too much strain, potentially leading to power cuts. The electricity that Germany is not able to acquire from France is being compensated for with electricity produced by gas-fired power stations in Germany. But this in turn involves using up valuable supplies of gas that Germany is trying to save before winter arrives.
Germany's three remaining nuclear power stations were due to be turned off at the end of this year, the end of an 11-year process. The decision to withdraw from nuclear power was made by the government of Angela Merkel after the 2011 Fukushima disaster in Japan.
Habeck had long resisted calls for the power plants in southern Germany - Isar 2 and Neckarwestheim 2 - to be extended as Germany coped with the effect of Russia slowing down, and then turning off completely, its gas supply via the Baltic Sea pipeline Nord Stream 1 earlier this month. But his arguments against keeping the plants in operation became increasingly difficult to defend. A majority of Germans, despite being in favour of moving away from nuclear power, has said it is in favour of extending the plants' use temporarily.
Habeck had announced earlier this month that the plants would be put into a standby mode but would effectively stay offline unless needed.
His decision amounts to an awkward U-turn, though Habeck said it was a reaction to the current situation, including what he called an escalation of the situation in Russia, "which is developing fairly dramatically", and that he was resistant to populist demands.
Habeck said that the necessary changes to the law covering the extension of the plants would be voted on in the Bundestag at the end of next month.
Reacting to security concerns, and whether nuclear plants may be open to hacking attacks and terrorist threats, Habeck said the government was well aware of the concerns and was "doing its utmost" to secure them.
German and Danish authorities were examining evidence on Tuesday suggesting that the Nord Stream pipelines 1 and 2 may have been deliberately damaged on Monday night in an act of sabotage, after dramatic drops of pressure in them and evidence of gas leaking into the Baltic Sea with possible explosions. Fingers have inevitably been pointed at Russia as a possible culprit. The incident has heightened concerns over the vulnerability of energy infrastructure in Europe.
#233

The global dash for gas amid the Ukraine war will accelerate climate breakdown and could send temperatures soaring far beyond the 1.5C limit of safety, analysis has shown.
If all of the new gas projects announced in response to the global gas supply crunch are fulfilled, the resulting greenhouse gas emissions would add up to about 10% of the total amount of carbon dioxide that can safely be emitted by 2050.
As that gas is in addition to current production of fossil fuels, that would threaten to derail the Paris climate agreement, according to Climate Action Tracker, a group of analysts, in a report published on Thursday at the Cop27 UN climate talks in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt.
There will be an oversupply of liquefied natural gas across the world, reaching about 500 megatonnes of LNG by the end of this decade, according to the new data. The amount of oversupply will be about five times as much gas as the EU imported from Russia last year, and about twice as much as Russia's total gas exports.
Bill Hare, the chief executive of Climate Analytics, one of the partner organisations behind Climate Action Tracker, told the Guardian that the world had "overreached" in its attempts to fill the hole left by Russian gas. "There will be just too much," he said. "The volume of import capacity of gas being built in Europe far exceeds the replacement needs."
The group forecasts an increase in capacity of 235% between now and 2030.
Panic over keeping people warm in winters to come, and keeping the lights on from gas-fired power generation, has led governments in Europe that previously relied on gas from Russia to push for new supplies from a range of other sources.
Some governments, including Germany, have said the drive for new gas import sources will not prevent them achieving their climate goals, and that the gas contracts will be short-term and will stipulate that the gas infrastructure will be packed up before the end of its engineering lifespan.
But Hare said this would be difficult to ensure, as once the infrastructure was built the investors would have an interest in keeping it in use.
The International Energy Agency warned last year that no new fossil fuel development could take place if the world were to stay within 1.5C of pre-industrial temperatures, the goal confirmed by countries at the Cop26 climate talks in Glasgow last year.
Climate Action Tracker found gas production and import capacity was being expanded across the world, in Africa, North America, Asia and Australia, as well as Europe.
"We are witnessing a major push, which could cause global emissions to breach dangerous levels," said Hare. "Increasing our reliance on fossil gas cannot be the solution to today's energy and climate crises anywhere."
The analysis also predicted that global heating would reach 2.4C above pre-industrial levels by 2100, based on the policies and measures agreed by governments to date.
At the Cop27 conference, the spotlight has fallen on African gas supplies in particular. Soaring gas prices internationally have encouraged African countries with gas reserves to seek investors to help exploit them. Many world leaders are sympathetic, and some EU countries are considering African gas as a replacement for Russian supplies - but some African leaders, including Kenya's president, William Ruto, are concerned.
Many civil society groups have called for the expansion of renewable energy instead, saying exploiting oil and gas in Africa was unlikely to benefit ordinary people on the continent, but would produce a bonanza for multinationals and the elite in the countries concerned, while the poor would suffer worse effects from the climate crisis.
Ina-Maria Shikongo, a campaigner at Fridays for Future, of Windhoek, Namibia, said: "Pushing for gas development in Africa is literally telling global citizens and victims of the climate emergency their lives do not matter. And African lives actually matter."
Investment in renewable energy in Africa still lags behind, however. A separate analysis published by BloombergNEF at Cop27 showed that there was no rebound in investment in renewable generation in Africa after the Covid-19 pandemic.
Last year, only $2.6bn (£2.3bn) of capital was used for new wind, solar, geothermal or other renewable power-generating projects in Africa, the lowest in 11 years, according to the analysis. The continent accounted for just 0.6% of the $434bn invested in renewables worldwide.
The authors said the poor results could not be blamed on any lingering effects of the pandemic. While renewables investment globally increased 9% from 2020-2021 to reach an all-time high, renewables investment in Africa slipped 35% year-on-year.
#234
Oil and gas companies are planning a "frightening" expansion that would result in 115bn tonnes of climate-heating CO2 being pumped out, equivalent to more than 24 years of US emissions, a new analysis has found.
Virtually all oil and gas companies are planning further exploitation of fossil fuels, the report found, pouring $160bn dollars into exploration since 2020. None of this investment is compatible with the International Energy Agency's (IEA) route to reaching net zero emissions by 2050 and limiting the climate crisis, the report said.
It was released at the Cop27 climate summit in Egypt, where leaders have been warned that deep and rapid cuts to carbon emissions are needed to avoid climate catastrophe. But the analysis found that 655 of 685 (96%) of exploration and production companies have expansion plans, with their short-term expansion plans increasing by 20% since 2021.
The IEA said in 2021 that no new fossil fuel projects could go ahead from 2022 if the world is to tackle global heating and its worsening impacts on billions of people. The analysis, by German NGO Urgewald and 50 NGO partners, also found expansion plans for the export of liquefied gas around the world would more than double under current plans.
This would lead to emissions equivalent to the current annual emissions of the African continent.
Russia's war in Ukraine and the continuing recovery from the Covid pandemic has sent energy prices soaring this year, prompting some countries and companies to increase their exploration. However, several major studies have shown that the vast majority of existing fossil fuel reserves must remain underground to avoid climate breakdown. Many observers argue that getting off fossil fuels, through cheap renewables and efficiency, is the fast and permanent solution to high energy prices.
UN secretary-general António Guterres in an address at the ongoing Cop27 climate summit in Sharm el-Sheikh said oil and gas companies were using 'bogus 'net zero' pledges' to cover up massive fossil fuel expansion. Photograph: Sean Gallup/Getty Images
Urgewald's analysis is based on a company-level database that covers the companies accountable for 95% of global oil and gas production. The data allows assessment of whether a company's activities are in line with the IEA's net zero emissions scenario.
"The outcome of our calculations is truly frightening: oil and gas companies' short-term expansion plans are not in line with the net zero emissions course put forward by the IEA," says Fiona Hauke at Urgewald. "Keeping these oil and gas resources in the ground is the bare minimum of what is needed to keep 1.5C attainable."
A series of UN reports in the run up to Cop27 laid bare how close the planet is to climate catastrophe, with "no credible pathway [of carbon cuts] to 1.5C in place". The world's scientists agree that emissions must fall by about 50% by 2030 to keep the internationally agreed 1.5C limit within reach.
A Guardian investigation published in May revealed that the world's biggest fossil fuel firms are planning scores of "carbon bomb" oil and gas projects that would drive the climate past 1.5C. That was based in part on Urgewald's data, which the group has now updated.
The climate plans published by many oil and gas companies were savaged by UN secretary-general António Guterres at Cop27 on Tuesday: "So-called 'net zero pledges' that exclude core products [coal, oil, gas] are poisoning our planet. Using bogus 'net zero' pledges to cover up massive fossil fuel expansion is reprehensible. This toxic cover-up could push our world over the climate cliff."
The Urgewald analysis found companies with the biggest net zero-busting plans are Saudi Aramco, QatarEnergy and Abu Dhabi National Oil Company, followed by Exxon Mobil, TotalEnergies and Chevron. This calculation included any projects that had not moved into the development phase before the end of 2021, the end date for new projects set by the IEA.
"The oil and gas companies are betting against our collective future," said Katrin Ganswindt, at Urgewald.
The surge in liquefied gas export plans is centred in North America, with 44% of global liquefaction plants under development located in the US and 11% in Canada . Most of this gas would be produced by fracking. QatarEnergy and Gazprom are also among the companies with the biggest liquefied gas plans.
"Liquefied gas is a false solution," said Lucie Pinson, at the NGO Reclaim Finance. "The newly planned projects will come too late to solve Europe's energy crisis. But they will lock us into a high-carbon."
The Urgewald report said Egypt, host of Cop27, is the "perfect example of the complete disconnect between the action needed and the reality on the ground". It said 55 companies are exploring for new oil and gas resources across Egypt.
The Urgewald database was designed to help investors, insurers and banks adopt impactful fossil fuel policies and nearly 200 financial institutions are now using it.
#235
The UK government has launched an investigation into renewable electricity deals amid growing concern over the extent of "greenwashing" by large energy firms claiming to offer environmental benefits to customers.
In a crackdown as increasing numbers of people switch to a renewable energy deal, the government said it would review how the sector markets its green electricity tariffs to consumers.
Warning that it planned to tighten the rules to stop firms from exaggerating the environmental benefits of their green electricity tariffs - a marketing tactic known as greenwashing - the business department said the investigation would focus on whether labels such as "100% renewable" or "green" remained fit for purpose.
As many as nine million British households are on green tariffs, with more than half of all new deals launched by energy providers now claimed to come with environmental benefits.
However, firms are currently able to advertise their tariffs as "green" even if some of the energy they supply comes from fossil fuels, which industry figures have warned risks misleading consumers.
Suppliers can use several ways to achieve green status under the current rules, including through committing to use 100% of the income from their customers to invest in developing renewable energy or by striking a deal with an existing windfarm or solar array to buy the electricity they produce.
Under a government scheme, energy firms buy certificates known as Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin, which are designed to show consumers how much of the electricity they sell has been acquired from clean sources.
When a supplier claims that its 100% renewable energy tariff is backed in this way, it means it will match each megawatt hour of electricity its customers use with certificates representing the same amount of renewable energy.
However, experts have warned the system is open loopholes that risk "double counting" the UK's renewable energy supply use or even claiming foreign renewables as its own.
The government said it was considering whether to reform the Rego system to make it "smarter". Energy suppliers could also be forced to provide clearer information to consumers about their green tariffs, including the type of renewable energy used, such as wind or solar, and where and when the renewable power was generated.
Anne-Marie Trevelyan, the energy minister, said there were concerns that some energy companies were overstating how environmentally friendly their products were.
"Millions of UK households are choosing to make the green switch, and more and more of our energy comes from renewables. But I want people to know that when they sign up to a green tariff, they are investing in companies that make a conscious choice to invest in renewable energy. Part of that is ensuring companies are being as transparent as possible on where their power comes from," she said.
The business department said polling by YouGov showed that almost two-thirds (62%) of UK energy consumers said their purchasing decisions were influenced by how eco-friendly an energy tariff was. However, 75% believed suppliers should be open and transparent about their tariffs, including how much of their renewable energy they buy from other companies.
The company Good Energy is one of those that has been a vocal critic of greenwash tariffs. In April this year it said energy suppliers had for some time been able to "mislead" customers who were trying to do the right thing in choosing green.
The government is also publishing a separate call for evidence on "third-party intermediaries" in the retail energy market, such as price comparison websites, auto-switching services and other brokers. At the moment, these operate outside the retail market rules, and ministers will ask for views on whether a regulatory framework is needed.
Consumer protection advocates and price comparison services have also called for greater transparency around suppliers who market their tariffs as green.
Richard Neudegg, the head of regulation at Uswitch.com, the comparison service, said: "More and more people are purchasing green tariffs but it's been difficult for bill payers to know exactly what's under the hood of these deals. We support any measures that aim to demystify green tariffs for households."
#236

The cost of living crisis hitting millions of households is about to get a whole lot worse.
Gas is the bedrock of power generation in the UK, supplying millions of homes directly and accounting for about 45% of electricity supply. It has rocketed in price, up 400% in the past year and 1,000% since 2019, according to the ICE futures market.
The prospect of a tripling of the energy price cap in October to £3,600 - from £1,254 in 2019 - lies behind the Bank of England's warning of a long recession from this autumn, characterised by soaring inflation, falling living standards and rising unemployment.
The central bank's response is to raise interest rates to bring down inflation. Liz Truss, ahead in the race to be Tory leader and prime minister, has a remedy - wide-ranging tax cuts to spur growth. Labour would provide targeted support to those struggling the most with their bills, coupled with measures to increase investment.
But there are calls for more to be done. Here we discuss some options.
A lower price cap
What if the regulator Ofgem said bills are not going up in October? About half of the current 9.4% inflation rate can be accounted for by energy cost increases, and so the effect would be to cap further price rises. A lower inflation rate would take the pressure off workers to bargain for higher wages and, without strong wages, the Bank would have less need to increase interest rates.
About 23 million households have their domestic energy bill governed by the energy price cap. Ofgem says if it kept the average dual-fuel tariff at April's £1,971, then the rising cost of wholesale gas would be swallowed by the industry.
The regulator has decided against this route because it says forcing utility companies to absorb costs would make them all loss making and force several into bankruptcy. They would need a government subsidy and billions of pounds in rescue loans for those that went bust.
But the government could go down this route and become the owner of a merged utility company. France already owns most of its national electricity supplier, EDF, and is about to buy the remaining shares to keep prices capped. Inflation in France is 5.8%.
A bigger windfall tax
Britain produces gas and oil in the North Sea. As chancellor, Rishi Sunak agreed to apply an extra 25% levy on the industry's windfall profits that he said would raise £5bn.
To address his previous concerns that a windfall tax would stymie investment, he has allowed firms to offset 80% of their new investment costs against tax. Combined with existing tax breaks, oil and gas firms get 91p off their corporation tax for every pound spent on investment.
But there is no evidence that windfall profits are being invested. The industry plans investment 10 to 15 years ahead, and windfalls are usually handed to shareholders in higher dividends and share buybacks. The same is the case now. So the government could apply the 25% without any tax breaks, generating a sum nearer £15bn.
More generous benefits
The government's energy bills support scheme provides a £400 discount on bills in October for every household, a £650 means-tested one-off payment to eight million low-income households, £150 for those on disability benefits and £300 for pensioners. This was designed when the forecast for the October price cap was £2,800.
MPs on the business, energy and industrial strategy committee warn the package has been '"eclipsed by the scale of the crisis".
The National Institute of Economic and Social Research said that "any fiscal loosening would be better directed to universal credit", which it said should rise by £25 a week for at least six months from October. In addition, the energy grant should rise from £400 to £600 for 11 million low-income households.
Bills are so high that the subsidies would not be seen as inflationary - just keeping the wolf from the door.
Capping wages in the City
Bank officials said they increased interest rates by 0.5 percentage points - the largest margin in more than 25 years - because they feared wage rises next year would outstrip inflation and generate a wage/price spiral.
They admit there is little evidence of workers using their muscle to secure high wage rises at the moment, but this could change if inflation remains high.
To emphasise how weak pay demands have been so far, the latest official figures show average earnings increased by 4.3% over the year to June and 6.2% with bonuses. The vast bulk of the bonuses are paid in the financial, professional and business services industries.
If the Bank is so worried, it could cap the bonuses of the City firms it regulates. That would bring down average wages and halt the most egregious example of pay growth, with City firms that are immune to the energy crisis awarding themselves huge payouts.
The other sectors where pay has spiralled are badly affected by staff shortages, mainly due to visa restrictions imposed by the UK on EU workers. Higher wages are welcome in hospitality, travel and leisure, but firms are trapped by a lack of skilled replacements when staff move for higher pay at a rival, forcing them to turn down customers. Scrapping visa rules and allowing free movement would be another way to ease pay pressures.
#237

The UK's Science Museum has "doubled down" on its sponsorship of climate exhibitions by fossil fuel companies, campaigners say, by taking funding from a subsidiary of the Adani Group.
Adani is a conglomerate with major holdings in coal, the most polluting fossil fuel. The Energy Revolution gallery, opening in 2023, will be sponsored by Adani's Green Energy arm.
The museum said the gallery "will explore the latest climate science and the energy revolution needed to cut global dependence on fossil fuels". Dame Mary Archer, chair of the Science Museum Group, said: "This gallery will take a truly global perspective on the world's most urgent challenge. We're hugely grateful to Adani Green Energy for the significant financial support."
Campaigners called the decision "astonishing" and "reckless". The Science Museum has attracted heavy criticism over sponsorship deals with oil and gas giants Shell, BP and Equinor. The Shell deal included a contract clause committing the museum not to "damage the goodwill or reputation" of the oil company.
The museum's former director, climate scientist Prof Chris Rapley, resigned from its advisory board on 2 October over the issue. The museum is hosting the government's Global Investment Summit on Tuesday, part of the preparations for the crucial Cop26 climate summit at the end of the month in Glasgow.
Adani has said it wants to be the largest renewable energy company in the world by 2030. But it is facing opposition in India and Australia over plans to expand its coal operations. Gautam Adani, group chair, said: "The new gallery will explore how we can power the future through low carbon technologies."
Jess Worth, from Culture Unstained, said: "Astonishingly, the museum's management have doubled down and signed up Adani - a coal conglomerate - to sponsor a gallery about the energy transition. Their enthusiasm for fossil fuel partnerships has turned controversy into a crisis of credibility, and they must be held to account for their reckless decisions."
Adrian Burragubba, an Indigenous traditional owner of land targeted by Adani for a huge coal mine in Australia, said: "By putting this company on a pedestal, the Science Museum is complicit in Adani's violation of our human rights and destruction of our ancestral lands."
Sir Ian Blatchford, chief executive of the Science Museum, said: "Adani Green Energy already has one of the world's largest renewable portfolios and plans to invest $20bn in clean energy over the next 10 years. And be in no doubt, such massive investments are needed to move India from high-carbon to low-carbon energy whilst still meeting their growing energy needs."
Shell's sponsorship of the museum's current climate exhibition, Our Future Planet, has been criticised by scientists, exhibition contributors and Greta Thunberg. On Sunday protesters delivered a huge pile of bin bags to the museum to protest against links to coal.
#238
Rosalina Marrero spends the best part of each day ironing and watching telenovelas at her modest bungalow in Puerto Rico's coastal Guayama province. When it gets too hot or her asthma plays up due to the toxic coal ash from the nearby power plant, the 78-year-old widow rests on an adjustable hospital bed, clicks on the fan and thanks God for the solar panels on her roof.
Earlier this year, Marrero was among two dozen residents in a low-income, predominantly Black neighbourhood blighted by coal pollution, fitted with a rooftop solar and storage system. Campaigners say systems like hers should be rolled out more widely to tackle the island's energy crisis and the global climate emergency - both of which are exacerbating racialized health inequalities.
The situation with the electricity is dire.
Rooftop solar could supply all of Puerto Rico's energy needs
Ruth Santiago
Puerto Ricans can pay more than twice as much for electricity as Americans on the mainland, depending on which sector they are in, yet earlier this month power cuts to hundreds of thousands of homes and businesses caused widespread anger and misery. Traffic lights failed, hospitals used expensive diesel generators to keep dialysis machines and ventilators running, and fires broke out due to fluctuations in voltage.
Despite the abysmal service, electricity rates have increased four times so far this year.
In hot and humid Guayama, the lights went out for several hours almost every day for those unable to afford a backup generator. But thanks to the rooftop solar system, Marrero could stay cool and watch TV without worrying about the food going off in the fridge.
"It's the best thing that's happened to me. I thank God because my poor neighbours are suffering but I've always got electricity. I feel more secure, if we get another big hurricane like Maria, I won't suffer so much," said Marrero.
Marrero is lucky because while Puerto Rico gets enough sunlight to meet its residential electricity needs at least four times over, less than 3% of the island's energy comes from renewable sources. The rest is generated from imported fossil fuels: 49% from petroleum and 29% from natural gas, while coal accounts for 19%.
Hurricane Maria was a wake-up call: it not only exposed Puerto Rico's vulnerability to extreme weather events linked to global heating, but also focused attention on the economic and environmental ramifications of the island's dependence on fossil fuels for local communities and greenhouse gas emissions.
This gave rise to a social movement that came up with a plan called Queremos Sol, or we want sun - an evidence-based roadmap to make Puerto Rico's energy system self-sufficient by swapping fossil fuels for onsite small solar grids distributed throughout the island.
The concept is simple: a localized system that doesn't require moving electricity from centralized power plants along overhead wires to local substations would be better equipped to withstand and recover from super storms and other natural disasters. Onsite batteries would better cover critical needs during disruptions.
Experts say that such radical change is necessary to comply with Puerto Rico's ambitious energy policy, which mandates that 40% of electricity must come from renewable resources by 2025 and 100% by 2050.
It would also help the US comply with the Paris agreement, which Biden rejoined on the first day of his presidency, as well as the administration's commitment to achieve net zero emissions by investing in green infrastructure and jobs to address climate change and environmental justice.
On the other hand, local authorities and the energy sector insist that more electricity must be generated to avoid shortages and power cuts - claims which campaigners dismiss as a ruse to justify further investment in gas and transmission infrastructure, as official documents suggest there's enough capacity to cover demand.
What's agreed is that Puerto Rico is at a pivotal point and for once there's real money on the table: last September, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Fema) approved an unprecedented $9.6bn to reconstruct the island's energy system and is currently deciding how the money should be spent.
"Rooftop solar could supply all of Puerto Rico's energy needs. It's viable, sustainable and more reliable than the current centralized system that the energy industry and authorities want to rebuild," said Ruth Santiago, lawyer and environmental policy expert who contributed to Queremos Sol. "We need the Biden administration to act. This is a critical time, a lot is at stake."
A move to renewables - but how fast?
Puerto Rico is a tropical Caribbean archipelago and US territory located a thousand miles or so south-east of Miami. The main island is mostly mountains surrounded by narrow coastal plains where the majority of the 3 million habitants reside in towns and cities.
Over the past two decades, Puerto Rico has been among three territories (along with Haiti and Myanmar) most affected by extreme weather such as storms, floods, heatwaves and droughts, according to the Germanwatch Climate Risk Index.
In September 2017 hurricanes Irma and Maria made landfall two weeks apart and destroyed much of Puerto Rico's electricity transmission and distribution infrastructure (including industrial wind farms), leading to the longest blackout in US history.
About 3,000 people died in the aftermath as homes, businesses and healthcare facilities were left without power for months. Marrero was cut off for about 15 weeks, and recalls having to buy just enough food to last each day as she couldn't afford a generator for the fridge or fan.
In addition to increasingly frequent and intense catastrophic weather events, global heating is also causing slower changes such as rising sea levels and ocean warming that endanger the island's infrastructure.
But the climate crisis isn't the only threat facing Puerto Rico: a 6.4 magnitude earthquake in January 2020 left two-thirds of residents without power, and significantly damaged the island's two gas-fired power plants.
In fact, much of the existing energy infrastructure (plants, transmitter towers, poles and cables) is in flood-prone areas or at risk of sea-level rise, storm surges and tsunamis, as well as strong winds and earthquake damage.
It's one reason why rooftop systems, not industrial farms, are proposed by Queremos Sol - as centralised renewable plants also rely on transmission and distribution lines. Rooftop solar relies on batteries and local distribution networks, which would be easier to fix if damaged. In addition, Puerto Rico lacks open land, so large-scale wind and solar farms would affect scarce agricultural lands and ecologically sensitive areas.
It's widely agreed that Puerto Rico's energy system is in disarray.
The publicly owned utility (Prepa), like Puerto Rico, is in bankruptcy and maintenance has been neglected for years. The latest spate of power cuts led to resignations at the top of Prepa, which is responsible for generating electricity, and angry public protests against Luma, the private US-Canadian consortium that took over transmission and distribution in June.
What's disputed is how quickly the island should move to renewables.
Official documents show the government of Puerto Rico, Prepa and Luma want to spend most of the historic funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Fema) on rebuilding the existing transmission system and new gas-fired plants, with only a fraction left over for renewables.
Fema told the Guardian that Prepa and Luma have so far submitted 88 projects, but detailed work plans would be evaluated before final approval.
Fernando Gil, the new chairman of Prepa's board, told the Guardian that progress towards the legally binding renewable targets had been too slow, but denied vested interests were to blame. "We need to stabilize the system, generate more power and be proactive with maintenance while planning for renewables, but we have to be flexible ... Gas is way cleaner and can be more efficient if combined with other fuels."
Yet Tomás Torres, the consumer representative on the board, said the utility should be investing in rooftop solar installation now. "Puerto Rico has the proper laws, regulations and funds to achieve energy transformation, it just has to be executed."
A Luma spokesperson said: "By key measures including reliability, customer service and safety, Puerto Rico has the worst electrical service in North America. It will take time and concerted effort to set it right."
As the battle for Puerto Rico's energy future intensifies, for many ordinary people it's a matter of life and death.
Solar power 'can save lives'
In Guayama, 72-year-old Margarita Velázquez was diagnosed with COPD, a chronic respiratory condition, a few years after the nearby coal plant opened in 2002. "I stopped being able to breathe. I remember the doctor asked me how long I'd been smoking for, but I've never smoked!"
On bad days, when coal ash hovers in the air over the community, Velázquez finds it hard to stop wheezing and needs an electric-powered nebulizer machine to open up her airways. The anxiety of losing power has gone since she was selected for the rooftop project.
The coal plant in Guayama. Photograph: Angel Valentin/The Guardian
"It's given me some peace of mind," she said.
At the nearby plant, a huge pile of grey ash laden with toxic heavy metals is waiting to be shipped to Florida and Georgia for disposal. When the wind picks up, the ash scatters through the air.
For years hundreds of thousands of tonnes were dumped in landfills, roads and fields, contaminating the air and drinking water sources of mostly low-income neighborhoods.
The coal plant has cost lives. Public health researchers have found higher rates of several chronic conditions among communities near the plant, including respiratory illness, heart disease, allergies and skin complaints. The incidence of cancers increased by 65% in the decade after the plant opened, while the numbers of patients with kidney failure requiring dialysis have also risen, according to Dr Gerson Jiménez, director of the Guayama hospital where he has worked for more than four decades.
Amid growing backlash, the coal ash must now be removed, but huge toxic deposits remain scattered across the island and now others face the same deadly consequences. "It's now being sent to poor communities of colour on the mainland, who can expect to see an increase in the same lethal diseases in years to come," said Jiménez.
Puerto Rico's energy reforms, passed in 2019 with bipartisan support, mandate phasing out coal by 2028 (the company's 25-year contract ends in 2027), but advocates argue that rolling out rooftop solar could make the plant obsolete sooner and therefore save lives.
José Vázquez, 76, Velázquez's husband and a member of Guayama Community United for Your Health - a group campaigning for the plant's closure, cleanup and compensation - said: "There are big politicians and big interests in this struggle. We are in the middle like ham in a sandwich."
Perhaps there is another way.
Solar town
Adjuntas is a small mountain town surrounded by lush forests in the central midwestern part of the island where the temperate climate provides relief from the steamy coasts.
Here, the solar power movement dates back more than two decades to a grassroots environmental group called Casa Pueblo, which organized the community to kick out a mining company before embarking on a crusade to make the town energy independent.
Since Maria, hundreds of rooftop and onsite solar systems have been installed at homes, emergency services and critical businesses around Adjuntas, known locally as Pueblo Solar (Solar Town).
The initiative relies on locally trained volunteers, donations and grants from groups like the US non-profit Honnold Foundation, and includes vulnerable households, a nursing home, fire station, community radio station and selection of general stores which serve isolated neighbourhoods stranded after the hurricanes.
At the town's picturesque main square, all 25 businesses - including a pizzeria, a pharmacy and hardware store - have created a micro energy network with a social justice twist: savings from generating and sharing their own energy will help fund solar systems for low-income residents who are homebound or need to keep medication refrigerated.
On the edge of town, José Hernández runs a minimart which Maria partially destroyed and left without power for six months. The hurricane triggered a mass exodus to the mainland of mostly working-age folks left unemployed or homeless, but Hernández, 33, decided to stay and rebuild.
It has been hard to expand the business as frequent power cuts force him to close the store and also damage the fridges, which are costly to repair.
But six months ago Hernández obtained a grant for solar panels, and then used his savings to buy the other equipment. Since then, he has had uninterrupted power and his electricity bill has fallen drastically, allowing him to hire an employee. "It's given me a sense of tranquillity. It's exciting, I can now expand and invest in my future."
At its heart, this is a social justice initiative seeking to democratise access to energy, according to Arturo Massol from Casa Pueblo. "It's anti-poverty, locally driven development as we believe clean renewable energy is a right for everyone, not just the privileged few."
#239
The UN secretary general, António Guterres, has described the record profits of oil and gas companies as immoral and urged governments to introduce a windfall tax, using the money to help those in the most need.
Speaking in New York on Wednesday, Guterres said the "grotesque greed" of the fossil fuel companies and their financial backers had led to the combined profits of the largest energy companies in the first quarter of this year hitting almost $100bn (£82bn).
"It is immoral for oil and gas companies to be making record profits from this energy crisis on the backs of the poorest people and communities, at a massive cost to the climate," he said.
"I urge all governments to tax these excessive profits, and use the funds to support the most vulnerable people through these difficult times."
Earlier this week, BP was the latest fossil fuel giant to announce huge gains, revealing it had tripled its profits to nearly £7bn in the second quarter of the year amid high oil prices during Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Guterres said such profits were unacceptable as people around the world faced financial ruin.
"Household budgets everywhere are feeling the pinch from high food, transport and energy prices, fuelled by climate breakdown and war.
"This threatens a starvation crisis for the poorest households, and severe cutbacks for those on average incomes."
He said that alongside a windfall tax on excessive profits governments must do more to manage energy demand and accelerate the transition to renewable energy sources which are cheaper than oil and gas.
He called on developed countries to offer more "social, technical or financial support" to help developing nations transition to renewable energy.
"Developing countries don't lack reasons to invest in renewables. Many of them are living with the severe impacts of the climate crisis including storms, wildfires, floods and droughts. What they lack are concrete, workable options."
He added: "Some of those same developed countries are introducing universal subsidies at gas stations, while others are reopening coal plants. It is difficult to justify such steps even on a temporary basis."
#240

Jeremy Hunt hopes to raise £14bn next year after increasing the windfall tax on oil and gas companies and reining in the profits of low carbon electricity generators.
The chancellor also confirmed that the existing windfall tax on North Sea oil and gas operators, the energy profits levy (EPL), will be raised from 25% to 35% and extended by two years, until March 2028.
From 1 January, a tax will also apply to "low carbon electricity generators", including wind, solar and nuclear, levied at 45%. This is higher than the 40% rate trailed before the budget.
Hunt said he expected the two taxes to raise £14bn next year. Treasury officials will meet energy bosses on Friday to discuss the proposals.
Shares in the power station owners Centrica, Drax and SSE initially fell sharply moments after Hunt's announcement, but later rallied as it emerged that the energy generator levy would be less onerous than feared. Oil and gas stocks were broadly unmoved.
The chancellor said that most countries were still paying for the consequences of the pandemic and that this had been worsened "by a made-in-Russia energy crisis".
He had "no objection to windfall taxes if they are genuinely about windfall profits caused by unexpected increases in energy prices. But any such tax should be temporary, not deter investment and recognise the cyclical nature of energy businesses".
The surge in gas prices, in part fuelled by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, has handed a surprise lift in profits to oil and gas companies, and generators including nuclear and biomass power stations and windfarms.
The changes mean the EPL will raise a further £20bn over the next six years, to £40bn in total.
The Office for Budget Responsibility estimated that oil and gas tax receipts, including the energy profits levy, will reach £14.9bn this financial year, double its March forecast. It said estimates for 2023-24 had quadrupled, to £20.7bn including £10.8bn.
"The latter would be an all-time high for oil and gas revenues in cash terms, and the highest as a share of GDP since 1985-86," it said, adding that volatility in energy prices meant these revenues are "particularly uncertain".
However, the energy profits levy has been criticised as it does not extend to the excess cash generated by oil and gas giants' trading, refining and forecourts divisions. Hunt did not alter the levy to reach these windfalls.
Alice Harrison, fossil fuels campaign leader at Global Witness, said: "This so called windfall tax and budget doesn't go anywhere near what's needed to protect UK citizens that are being dragged into poverty, and barely touches the sides of the immense profits that energy companies have been amassing."
The OBR said onshore corporation tax, including the electricity generator levy, should raise £9.9bn next year. The levy is forecast to raise £14.4bn from 2022 to 2028.
The generator levy was not as onerous as companies and investors had feared. The tax will be levied on "extraordinary profits", made on electricity sold above £75 per megawatt hour. Power currently trades around £260 per MWh.
Energy consultancy Aurora said future UK power prices are trading around £350/MWh and are forecast to remain above £225/MWh, making the levy more generous than the EU's €180/MWh revenue cap.
The government resisted calls to levy the tax on gas-fired power plants, which have also seen a rise in profits, arguing they were seeing higher costs and were exposed to "unique market risks". Hydroelectric and battery storage facilities, oil and coal power stations were also omitted.
The move to restrict profits on electricity generators represents a departure from the former prime minister Liz Truss's plan to cap the revenues of renewable and nuclear power producers from next year, which would have been in line with the EU's "revenue cap".
#241

Jeremy Hunt hopes to raise £14bn next year after increasing the windfall tax on oil and gas companies and reining in the profits of low carbon electricity generators.
The chancellor also confirmed that the existing windfall tax on North Sea oil and gas operators, the energy profits levy (EPL), will be raised from 25% to 35% and extended by two years, until March 2028.
From 1 January, a tax will also apply to "low carbon electricity generators", including wind, solar and nuclear, levied at 45%. This is higher than the 40% rate trailed before the budget.
Hunt said he expected the two taxes to raise £14bn next year. Treasury officials will meet energy bosses on Friday to discuss the proposals.
Shares in the power station owners Centrica, Drax and SSE initially fell sharply moments after Hunt's announcement, but later rallied as it emerged that the energy generator levy would be less onerous than feared. Oil and gas stocks were broadly unmoved.
The chancellor said that most countries were still paying for the consequences of the pandemic and that this had been worsened "by a made-in-Russia energy crisis".
He had "no objection to windfall taxes if they are genuinely about windfall profits caused by unexpected increases in energy prices. But any such tax should be temporary, not deter investment and recognise the cyclical nature of energy businesses".
The surge in gas prices, in part fuelled by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, has handed a surprise lift in profits to oil and gas companies, and generators including nuclear and biomass power stations and windfarms.
The changes mean the EPL will raise a further £20bn over the next six years, to £40bn in total.
The Office for Budget Responsibility estimated that oil and gas tax receipts, including the energy profits levy, will reach £14.9bn this financial year, double its March forecast. It said estimates for 2023-24 had quadrupled, to £20.7bn including £10.8bn.
"The latter would be an all-time high for oil and gas revenues in cash terms, and the highest as a share of GDP since 1985-86," it said, adding that volatility in energy prices meant these revenues are "particularly uncertain".
However, the energy profits levy has been criticised as it does not extend to the excess cash generated by oil and gas giants' trading, refining and forecourts divisions. Hunt did not alter the levy to reach these windfalls.
Alice Harrison, fossil fuels campaign leader at Global Witness, said: "This so called windfall tax and budget doesn't go anywhere near what's needed to protect UK citizens that are being dragged into poverty, and barely touches the sides of the immense profits that energy companies have been amassing."
The OBR said onshore corporation tax, including the electricity generator levy, should raise £9.9bn next year. The levy is forecast to raise £14.4bn from 2022 to 2028.
The generator levy was not as onerous as companies and investors had feared. The tax will be levied on "extraordinary profits", made on electricity sold above £75 per megawatt hour. Power currently trades around £260 per MWh.
Energy consultancy Aurora said future UK power prices are trading around £350/MWh and are forecast to remain above £225/MWh, making the levy more generous than the EU's €180/MWh revenue cap.
The government resisted calls to levy the tax on gas-fired power plants, which have also seen a rise in profits, arguing they were seeing higher costs and were exposed to "unique market risks". Hydroelectric and battery storage facilities, oil and coal power stations were also omitted.
The move to restrict profits on electricity generators represents a departure from the former prime minister Liz Truss's plan to cap the revenues of renewable and nuclear power producers from next year, which would have been in line with the EU's "revenue cap".
#242

A secret court system that allows fossil fuel investors to sue governments for vast amounts of money has been accused of institutional bias, self-regulation issues and perceived conflicts of interest, as the drumbeat of EU countries leaving threatens to turn into a samba march.
On Wednesday, the EU will be meeting to discuss reform of the energy charter treaty (ECT) but at the end of last week, Germany became the latest European country to announce its intention to leave the treaty. Slovenia exited earlier in the week, after similar moves by France, the Netherlands, Spain and Poland. The UK is now one of the last large economies to remain in the ECT.
The ECT's investment arbitration courts were set up in 1998 to protect energy firms operating in former Soviet Union countries from government expropriation and regulation. They gave the companies the right to seek compensation if legislation or policies were enacted that could be seen as hostile, using the investor-state dispute mechanism that stirred up much public controversy during the negotiation of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP).
The treaty has since been signed by more than 52 countries across Europe and central Asia, with oil, gas and coal firms being awarded more than $100bn by the ECT tribunals. The UK oil firm Rockhopper was recently awarded $190m in a case it brought against Italy, which is contesting the decision. As countries have sought to curb their emissions in line with the Paris climate agreement after 2015, the number of claims being brought has exploded. Renewables companies have also brought a number of cases.
As its signatories prepare for a crunch meeting in Mongolia on 22 November, the ECT is facing what one critic has called a "crisis of legitimacy" for several reasons, including how the tribunals are composed, feeding growing concerns over perceived conflicts of interest.
The ECT's tribunals can proceed under several systems, but the World Bank's International Centre for Settlement of International Disputes (ICSID) rules are most commonly used. The system is different to most national legal systems, which employ a publicly appointed and independent judiciary. ICSID's courts work with independent arbitrators appointed by the parties, but who may work in different roles for employers with conflicting interests within the system.
Each case is decided by a panel of three arbitrators: one appointed by the state, one by the investor, and a third who acts as president or chair and is selected by the other two arbitrators. The case is then argued before the panel by lawyers acting as counsel for each party. Cases are held behind closed doors, and there is no obligation to release the outcome. A choice of arbitrator can be challenged if a party disagrees, but there is no guarantee it will succeed.
"Double hatting" occurs when a lawyer takes more than one role across different cases - for example - sometimes acting as counsel for an investor, other times acting as a president, who is supposed to adjudicate independently.
An analysis of the cases brought so far under the ECT - carried out by the Guardian, the Transnational Institute and Powershift - has found that in a significant number of cases, an individual who had previously acted as an arbitrator appointed by an investor in one case was appointed to act as counsel (or advocate) for a party in another similar case.
Without full disclosure - which is one of the main reasons to challenge an arbitrator - there can be no guarantee that arbitrators have not had links to the law firm (or lawyers) acting as counsel in cases they are adjudicating, or that they have not acted as counsel in similar cases, leading to the risk of them prejudging the issues in play. Indeed, their reputations in this regard may lead some clients to seek them out.
Of the 191 arbitrators that have been nominated to sit in ECT hearings, just 37 elite lawyers - about 18% of the pool - have heard half of all the ECT's cases. Seventeen members of this group have acted in the role of arbitrator and legal counsel, in the ECT and other investment courts.
Sixteen of the 17 arbitrators sat in fossil fuel cases - most were chosen by investors - and only three of the 37 have not sat in a fossil fuel-related arbitration panel.
Of the cases in which "double hatters" took part as arbitrators, 58% were won by investors, according to the analysis.
Under ICSID rules, arbitrators should be "persons of high moral character and recognised competence in the fields of law, commerce, industry or finance, who may be relied on to exercise independent judgment".
However, these rules are self-regulated by the arbitrators - critics say they are unenforceable - and the successful removal of arbitrators is rare. In Spain, for example, just one proposed ECT arbitrator has been blocked, out of 19 challenges.
Many arbitrators believe they can separate the different roles they may play in different cases.
Klaus Sachs, an ECT-focused arbitrator based in Munich, said that "as in every profession, excellence is a way to success and among those arbitrators who are in high demand, you have very qualified people. They are very good lawyers."
There was, he added, "a lot of new talent coming in and so the market is changing as a new generation enters the field".
However, critics argue this is a recent and overstated trend. They say that allowing parties to appoint arbitrators who have acted as counsel in similar cases opens up what Lucía Bárcena, of the Transnational Institute, called "a Pandora's box of conflicts of interest".
It has also caused "long-running and heated debate within the international commercial arbitration community", according to a 2017 study. In it, the international legal expert Philippe Sands asked whether a lawyer could impartially wear the hat of an arbitrator in the morning and counsel in the afternoon. "Speaking for myself, I find it difficult to imagine that I could do so," he said.
George Kahale III, the chair and partner of the law firm Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle, which represents states in international arbitration cases, said the small number of arbitrators available to states also caused "a clear structural bias" toward investors in the ECT's courts.
"The pool of arbitration candidates who I would consider to be 'straight shooters' ... is very, very small, whereas the pool of investor-friendly arbitrators is as wide as the Pacific Ocean," he said, over a video call from New York.
Kahale, an ECT veteran, said he had sat in many ISDS cases where he knew what the outcome of a tribunal would be as soon as he saw its composition.
"There's virtually no chance of getting someone from that small pool [of arbitrators] that states would normally consider appointing," he said.
Defenders of the system say the pool for defending states is filled with "very prominent and good arbitrators", and it is "relatively large", albeit smaller than that for investors.
"When it comes to the chair, obviously it becomes more complicated," Sachs said. "But I don't think, when a party learns that I've been appointed chair of a case, that they know what the outcome will be, and I feel that is true for a large majority of the real professional arbitrators."
Sachs stressed that challenging arbitrators could be a lawyerly tactic and that "in most cases, the decisions are well-reasoned and balanced". But he accepted that arbitrators were "not often" removed under challenge.
Kahale said that factoring in all of this - and what he called "a virtual explosion" in the size of damages claims - the result was "a crisis of legitimacy within the [ISDS] system". That view is shared by Sands.
Laurence Tubiana, one of the architects of the Paris deal and the chief executive of the European Climate Foundation, said the analysis "clearly shows that the energy charter treaty's court system reeks of potential conflicts of interests which favour fossil fuel investors and threaten the Paris climate agreement. Once again, the oil and gas industry has found ways to control the game."
Within a system that could shower fossil fuel investors with more than a trillion dollars of compensation pay-offs by 2050, there are widespread fears the ECT could spark what the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) called "regulatory chill" at just the moment new climate laws are needed.
"The energy charter treaty is not consistent with the Paris agreement," said Patrice Dreiski, a former ECT executive. "The main goal of the ECT is to promote and protect fossil fuels investment, which is not at all the goal of the Paris agreement."
To date, investors have won 64% of concluded ECT cases, three-quarters of which covered the fossil fuel sector, according to the analysis.
The data was compiled mostly by the Transnational Institute from the UN Conference on Trade and Development database, the ECT's own overview of cases, the ICSID and Permanent Court of Arbitration databases that administer disputes, public tribunal documents published on italaw.com and specialised media.
The impression of a legal web geared to structurally benefit fossil fuel investors may even be reflected within the ECT secretariat itself, which promotes ECT conferences, oversees treaty rules, and provides institutional support to achieve the ECT's objectives.
Almost three-quarters (72%) of experts on the secretariat's industry advisory panel - which provides policy advice to the body with "a particular focus on risk mitigation and improvement of the business climate" - also work for fossil fuel companies or their financial beneficiaries.
Guy Lentz, the secretary general of the ECT secretariat and a former Shell executive, accepted that the panel was "structurally biased", but added: "We want many more renewable energy companies. We are working really hard on that, but it takes time."
Fabian Flues, a trade and investment adviser for the Berlin-based non-profit Powershift, said the analysis showed the ECT was "dominated by interests with a stake in maintaining the highly lucrative system of investment arbitration. It enables them to rake in huge fees, often coming out of taxpayers' pockets."
However, disquiet at the treaty's threat to timely climate action has now spurred Brussels to propose phasing out the ECT's writ within the EU's border, even as the bloc's own members queue up to jettison the pact.
It appears, however, that the UK will not be joining that queue. A government spokesperson said only that signatories "will decide whether to adopt the modernised energy charter treaty at the energy charter conference on 22 November".
#242
Thousands of people have taken to the streets in the UK in protest against the sharp rise in energy prices, as a cabinet minister said the government could not "completely nullify" the increases.
Demonstrations took place on Saturday, including one near Downing Street in central London where crowds gathered to hear speeches, including from former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. Other protests took place in cities including Cardiff and Birmingham. They follow a major increase in the energy price cap on Friday, with average household gas and electricity bills rising to £1,971 a year. A further jump in October could take the cost up to £2,600.
Groups including the Trades Union Congress and anti-poverty campaigners have voiced alarm at the changes, and said that when combined with increasing inflation and low pay, it could push people into "impossible choices" between heating their homes or eating.

A spokesperson for the People's Assembly Against Austerity, the organiser of Saturday's series of events, said: "Public outrage over the cost of living crisis is growing fast, and our response is gaining momentum."
Corbyn said: "I'm meeting people who are terrified of the next bill, so the very least we need is a price cap on energy, and then we need to say, well look at the profits of energy companies and look at the difficulties of people living."
The price increase is driven by more demand on energy as economies recover from the effects of the Covid pandemic, with supply unable to keep up. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has also exacerbated the issue, with some countries stopping or limiting their purchase of Russia's oil and gas.
Ministers have announced a council tax rebate for April and a £200 loan available from October to help soften the burden, but the Labour party has said there should be a windfall tax on oil and gas companies to help provide support to those in need.
In France, the government has limited energy bill increases to 4% this year.
Speaking on Sky News on Saturday, the Northern Ireland secretary, Brandon Lewis, said: "We [the government] can't completely nullify the impacts of the global markets and global pressure, for example, on energy, which is obviously the main focus at the moment for most people.
"But we will put in the support that we can, as and when we can, as I say, looking ...... across the board at what we're doing with the public's money."
Labour said the government should bring in laws to keep prices down. The shadow transport secretary, Louise Haigh, said: "We would be meeting with oil and gas companies to make sure that it happened and, if it didn't, then we'd be putting in legislative measures to make sure that it did.

"I think we do need to see legislative measures if North Sea oil and gas companies, petrol retailers, are experiencing record profits and not passing any of those savings on to customers."
She said she was shocked that the increase in national insurance contributions was going ahead when people were having to deal with other spiralling costs.
"It frankly beggars belief when we think about what people are having to pay over the coming weeks and months, that the government would not be doing much more to support people, let alone making things harder," she told Times Radio.
Amid a renewed focus on energy, the government's strategy on the issue has yet to be revealed - weeks after it was due to be announced. Reports in the Times suggested that Boris Johnson was considering trebling the amount of onshore wind power by 2035, despite many Tory backbenchers opposing it. Nuclear power is also expected to feature heavily.
Asked why there had been a delay and whether he supported onshore windfarms, Lewis said: "It's complicated work to look at how we can have an energy policy package that's holistic, that looks at all parts of energy, and we can become more domestically self-supportive on that, which will have a positive impact on prices. It's right they take that time to have a look at it."
#243
A major infrastructure project harnessing the vast tidal power of the Severn estuary is back on the agenda after the UK government said the Russian invasion of Ukraine had highlighted the need to find more secure sources of energy.
An independent commission was launched on Tuesday to explore using the Severn estuary, which has the second largest tidal range in the world, to create energy.
Michael Gove, the UK secretary of state for levelling up, backed the commission, which comes 12 years after the government dashed ambitious plans for a 10-mile energy-generating barrage.
Gove said: "Russia's invasion has served to heighten concerns about energy security and costs. Sustainable forms of energy cannot come soon enough. The launch of an independent commission on tidal energy for the Severn is very welcome news."
The commission has been set up by the Western Gateway "powerhouse", a coalition of politicians, business and public sector leaders and academics covering an area stretching from Swansea to Swindon and straddling the Severn, designed to rival the Northern Powerhouse and Midlands Engine. At its inaugural conference, delegates were told a Severn estuary tidal project could provide up to 7% of the UK's energy needs.
Huw Thomas, the leader of Cardiff council and one of the leaders of the project said: "We're becoming painfully aware of the need for greater energy security."
Thomas acknowledged that concerns over possible damage to an internationally important marsh and mudflat habitat, harming wildlife had blighted previous schemes. In 2010 the UK government said there was no "strategic case" for investing in a barrage and, instead, paved the way for new nuclear power plants.
But Thomas said: "The changing landscape of the climate emergency, energy insecurity, rising costs, and rapid technological improvements, indicate that many of these policy, cost and environmental barriers may no longer be as significant."
Thomas said the powerhouse was not wedded to any particular technology but he said the possibility of a barrage - which is likely to cost more than £25bn and take 10 years or more to come to fruition - or tidal lagoons would be explored.
Vaughan Gething, the Welsh government's economy minister, told the conference it was committed to helping Wales become a leading centre for emerging tidal technology.
The leader of Newport city council, Jane Mudd, said: "It feels like the time is right to look at this again." She said it was exciting that people on both sides of the estuary could work on the project. "The Severn is something that can unite us rather than divide us."
#244
The US oil and gas industry is using Russia's invasion of Ukraine to pressure the Biden administration to throw open more land and ocean for domestic drilling and to loosen regulations for large companies attempting to ramp up their fossil fuel extraction.
Just hours before Russian troops began their unprovoked assault on Ukraine, the American Petroleum Institute (API) posted a string of tweets calling for the White House to "ensure energy security at home and abroad" by allowing more oil and gas drilling on public lands, extend drilling in US waters and slash regulations faced by fossil fuel firms.
API, which represents oil giants including Exxon, Chevron and Shell, has called on Biden to allow an expansion of drilling and to drop regulations that impede new gas pipelines in order to help reduce fuel costs for Americans and support European countries that have seen gas costs spiral due to concerns over supply from Russia, which provides Europe with around a third of its gas.
"At a time of geopolitical strife, America should deploy its ample energy abundance - not restrict it," said Mike Sommers, the chief executive of API. Sommers added that Biden was "needlessly choking our own plentiful supply" of fossil fuels.
Some leading Republicans have joined the calls. "No administration should defend a Russian pipeline instead of refilling ours," Senator Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican, told her state's legislature this week. "Every day, I remind the Biden administration of the immense benefits of Alaska production, energy and minerals alike, and every day I remind them that refusing to permit those activities can have harmful consequences."
Environmental groups were quick to criticize the renewed push for more drilling, accusing proponents of cynically using the deadly Ukrainian crisis to benefit large corporations and worsen the climate crisis.
"Expanding oil and gas production now would do nothing to impact short term prices and would only accelerate the climate crisis, which already poses a major threat to our national security," said Lena Moffitt, chief of staff at Evergreen Action, a climate group. "We stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine, and stand opposed to actions by leaders of the fossil fuel industry that attempt to profit off of these harrowing atrocities."
Russia has faced a barrage of sanctions from the US and the European Union, although the western allies have so far largely steered clear of targeting the country's vast oil and gas industry. Biden has said the sanctions will "end up costing Russia dearly, economically and strategically" but has not applied punitive measures to Rosneft, Russia's state-owned oil company.
The US president faces the opposing pressures of dealing with the climate crisis while avoiding the political headache of rising gasoline prices for American drivers. On Thursday, the price of a barrel of crude oil rose to more than $100 on the global market for the first time since 2014, amid fears over Russia's supply.
A group of 10 congressional Democrats wrote to Biden on Thursday to urge the president to release more oil from the US's strategic petroleum reserve in order to lower fuel costs for consumers in the short term. "We know that in the long-term, eliminating US dependence on oil will provide the stability we need to keep energy costs low for American households," the lawmakers acknowledged.
The European bloc is thrashing out a plan for a long-term shift away from dependence on the fluctuating fossil fuel markets, with Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, outlining the need for "strategic independence on energy". Europe is "doubling down on renewables", she added.
The Ukraine crisis could prove to be a "turning point" in global energy consumption, said Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency. "There will be a transition to clean energy... it will be a difficult one, but I believe the governments will have to manage a transition if we want a planet that is safe and clean in the future," he said.
The development of solar and wind power has grown strongly in the US in recent years, although fossil fuels still account for about 80% of domestic energy consumption. Scientists have warned that emissions from the burning of coal, oil and gas must be rapidly and drastically slashed if the world is to avoid catastrophic climate impacts such as heatwaves, floods, food insecurity and societal unrest.
"Clean energy is affordable and reliable; we can't afford to wait any longer to free ourselves from the volatility of the fossil fuel market and the dictators and violence it enables," said Moffitt. 
#244
An energy security taskforce launched by Liz Truss has been scrapped by her successor, Rishi Sunak, after three months.
The taskforce, announced by Truss towards the beginning of her brief tenure as prime minister, was created as part of a package of measures announced in September to reform the "broken" market.
Led by Madelaine McTernan, who had previously been in charge of the UK's vaccine taskforce, the team aimed to agree long-term contracts with domestic and international suppliers to improve Britain's energy security and cut charges.
However, although Truss said the energy supply taskforce had already started negotiations in September, a government source has confirmed it was subsequently scrapped by Sunak.
They said: "Winding down the taskforce is the right decision. While it was sensible in September for the previous administration to explore these contracts, locking in long-term contracts while gas prices are this high just doesn't make sense."

Saying the taskforce was "one option on the table", the source pointed to a "whole range of other actions" being taken in service of its aims, including financial backing for the new Sizewell C nuclear power station in Suffolk.
Truss said at the time that the consequences of Russia's assault on Ukraine had exposed the "flaws" in the UK's approach to energy security, and declared her intent to end "short-term thinking" on the issue "once and for all".
Other measures, announced as part of the energy bailout in September, included the "energy price guarantee", which froze bills for an average household at £2,500 a year from 1 October.
This will continue to protect bill-payers until the end of March 2024, despite the regulator Ofgem confirming last month that the annual price cap is due to rise to £4,279 in January 2023.
A six-month scheme offering "equivalent support" for businesses and other non-domestic energy users was also announced at the time, with continuing assistance for "vulnerable industries" provided after the end of that period.
A government spokesperson said: "The energy supply taskforce was set up in September 2022 as part of efforts to boost domestic energy security.
"While the government is continuing these efforts and remains completely committed to strengthening our energy resilience, we have concluded that direct purchases of gas are not the best intervention in the market."
The Truss administration had said the taskforce and the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) would also negotiate with renewable energy producers in an effort to cut their prices.
#245
The Greens have called for the permanent nationalisation of the main energy supply companies and for domestic fuel bills to be reduced to the level of last autumn, describing this as a solution to the failed experiment with a market-based energy system.
In a proposal that goes well beyond Labour's idea for a freeze on energy bills for at least six months, the Greens said nationalising the main five energy firms was a necessary part of a plan sufficiently ambitious "to avoid a catastrophe this winter".
The scheme would be based on one proposed by the TUC last month. This was based on a cost of about £2.85bn to nationalise the big five supply firms - British Gas, E.ON, EDF, Scottish Power and Ovo. As a comparison, the government spent £2.2bn bailing out another firm, Bulb.
The Green plan would also involve the energy price cap - the maximum households can pay - being put back to the level of last autumn, before this April's increase of nearly £700 a year for the average household.
Putting this in place throughout the autumn and winter would cost about £37bn, the party said, compared with the £29bn estimated cost of Labour's proposal to keep the cap at its current level.
The cost would be paid for in part by tightening up the government's windfall tax on oil and gas firms' extra profits from higher global prices, and the party also proposes higher taxes for very wealthy people.
Carla Denyer, a co-leader of the Greens alongside Adrian Ramsay, said the party would also aim to create more energy efficiency by introducing differential tariffs under which households that use a lot of power face proportionally rising prices, with exceptions for people with disabilities or chronic health conditions.
The party is already committed to a mass programme of home insulation to improve energy efficiency.
"This experiment with an energy supply market has failed," Denyer said. "Only the government can intervene at the scale required to avoid a catastrophe this winter."
She said there was "nationwide anxiety about the prospect of unpayable energy bills", adding: "Other parties have only offered to fix energy prices at current levels, but we know these are already unaffordable. We would return energy prices to an affordable level."
Denyer said: "By bringing the big five energy retail companies into public ownership, setting the price of energy at an affordable rate and absorbing the global price rises, the government could make sure everybody can afford to get through this cost of living crisis. At the same time, it will mean this public service will be able to be run in the public interest, instead of in the interest of profit-making."
Labour and the Liberal Democrats have called for a freeze on energy bills at current levels. Boris Johnson's government has said more must be done to help households with energy costs, but that policies must be decided by his successor.
Liz Truss, the favourite to take over as prime minister, has said she is focused on tax cuts rather than direct help with energy costs, though the latter is not ruled out. Rishi Sunak, the other contender, has set out proposals including a cut to VAT on energy.
#246
The Albanese government has ruled out the early use of a gas market mechanism set up by the Turnbull government to limit energy price rises, saying it could not be activated until January and was not designed to cap prices.
The Australian domestic gas security mechanism was set up in 2017, and could not come into operation without consultation with the industry, new climate and energy minister Chris Bowen told his first media conference after being sworn in yesterday.
"It's not an easy trigger to pull, it's complicated, and if it was pulled today it would have absolutely no impact until the first of January anyway," he said. "It was not really designed to see existing contracts undermined."
Bowen, who began the press briefing by sharing the podium with emergency climate leaders, was pressed on what new treasurer, Jim Chalmers, has described as a "perfect storm" of price spikes in eastern energy markets.
"[The] former government promised a gas-fired recovery and left us a gas bin fire for the new government," Bowen said.
A severe cold snap and outages of coal-fired power plants have lately sent wholesale energy prices soaring, forcing some smaller retailers to drop out of the market. Gas users, for instance, have been paying as much as $800 per gigajoule, or 80 times typical prices, prompting authorities to step in wth $40/gj price caps in Melbourne and Sydney earlier this week.
Suppliers and customers were also called by the Australian Energy Market Operator into urgent meetings yesterday to address "a potential gas supply shortfall event" in Victoria.
While Bowen said he was not ruling out future use of the mechanism - the responsibility actually sat with the resources minister, Madeleine King - his emphasis would be on avoiding decisions on the fly.
"We are facing a very serious situation," made worse, he said, by the Coalition government's "nine years of denial and delay" on climate action and 23 energy policies.
"Their ad hoc-ery, their changes of policy approaches, have left Australia ill-prepared and our energy markets ill-prepared for the challenges we are facing today in relation to gas and energy supply."
To address the immediate issues, Bowen said he had spoken to his counterparts in the states and would seek a national energy meeting as soon as next week.
Tennant Reed, an energy policy expert at the AiGroup, said the gas security mechanism "would need to be totally rewritten to address this situation".
"They could rewrite it - and unless they do, it's just comprehensively useless in this situation," Reed said, not least because it could not take effect until next year.
"The conditions for it to be triggered are not established, even with prices going through the roof," he said. Any speedy rewriting, though, would set aside all the usual processes of consultation. "There are risks in doing that."
Should the government seek to divert some of the gas now bound for export - which WA does with its 15% share reserved for domestic use - that would bring other consequences, such as on the international front.
"Besides all the usual stuff about not wanting to go to war with the gas producers, ending Australia's long-term resource exports reputation and [so on], it seems like the diplomatic/values issue is probably a killer [for such an intervention]," Reed said.
Big energy consumers, though, are likely to continue pushing for some action by governments.
Andrew Richards, chief executive of the Energy Users' Association of Australia, yesterday demanded the gas industry "step up and play an active role to minimise the damage to the domestic economy of the unprecedented energy crisis sweeping the nation", with prices at "stratospheric levels".
"In desperate times like these, it is right that we look to governments for solutions," Richards said. "However, it would be wrong to not require the gas industry itself to also play a significant role in bringing gas prices back to a level that allows manufacturing to survive and for families not to be terrified to turn on the heater in the dead of winter."
Damian Dwyer, acting head of the Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Association, noted Aemo had activated a separate Gas Supply Guarantee to deal with the supply challenges.
"We understand current spot prices, representing only 10% to 15% of the industrial gas market, are under pressure, and we are working with all parties to resolve the issue," he said.
"The causes of the pressures are coal outages, relatively low levels of renewable power generation due to the weather and global market pressures arising from the Russian invasion of Ukraine," Dwyer said. "We stress that the majority of manufacturers are unaffected because they are on long-term contracts which, not long ago, were offered for this year at price levels around $6/GJ to $9/GJ."
#247
Australia's coal-fired power plants are likely to shut at almost triple the pace currently announced, with Victoria's brown coal fleet to be closed in just over a decade and the main electricity grid becoming coal-free by 2043, according to the market operator.
The draft Integrated System Plan 2022, an industry blueprint updated every two years and released on Friday by the Australian Energy Market Operator, plots how the grid serving eastern Australia will change to meet emissions reduction and market goals.
It detailed four scenarios based on extensive consultation over 18 months. The most probable path, dubbed the "Step Change" option, anticipates a nine-fold increase in large-scale renewable energy, such as wind and solar farms, as electricity supplies double to meet the decarbonisation of transport and other sectors without coal.
Solar panels on homes will also increase five times, and firming capacity in the form of batteries and other storage will triple by 2050. About 10,000km of new transmission will also be needed to connect the increasingly dispersed supply.
Owners of some coal generators have already accelerated their declared retirement dates, based on market, financial and operating pressures caused by the rise of renewable generation, the report said.
"The financial viability of existing thermal generation will become increasingly uncertain, particularly coal-fired generation that is less able to adjust generation levels rapidly in response to changes in market prices," it said. "Significant financial decisions to repair and maintain plant may be harder to justify under this uncertainty, potentially resulting in declining plant reliability."
The ISP, which will be finalised next year, comes as major states such as Victoria and NSW develop renewable energy zones or promote renewables' penetration through auctions or offer financial support for households to install solar panels.
Federal Labor raised the target for 2030 national emissions reductions last week based on a jump in renewable energy and the Morrison government also set a net zero emissions target by 2050, based in part on the decarbonisation of the grid.
While the ISP predicts an ongoing need for gas to support the grid during dark and still periods when there is little renewable energy, use of the fossil fuel has lately been decreasing along with coal. Gas-fired power in the National Electricity Market, that serves about 80% of the population, was the lowest in at least 15 years in October.
The report notes the transformation of the grid has already "outpaced all expectations", with Australia installing five times the amount of large-scale renewables in 2019 on a per capita basis than the European Union.
"In the last two years, through the pandemic, [such renewables] development accelerated, with 40% more [of it] now committed or anticipated to be connected to the grid by 2023-24 than was forecast in the 2020 ISP, it said.
The grid's share of renewables has risen to as high as 61% during periods in September, and Aemo now forecasts stints of 100% by as early as 2025.
Installed capacity of the National Electricity Market now totals almost 60GW, generating about 180TW-hours of electricity annually.
"With the Step Change, utility-scale generation and storage capacity would need to grow to 170 GW and deliver almost 400 TWh a year by 2050 to cater for existing loads and replace the gas and petrol currently consumed by much of our transport, industry, office and domestic use," it said, adding that energy efficiency would also need to improve.
Should Australia pursue a path of producing green hydrogen for export, that capacity would need to rise as much as eight-fold further should the country seek to be a hydrogen superpower, the report said.
Linking up the new plants will deliver net market benefits of $29bn, or 2.5 times the investment. "It optimises benefits for all who produce, consume and transport electricity in the market, as well as providing investment certainty and flexibility to reduce NEM emissions faster in the next decade if needed, and time for greater community engagement and supply chain risk management," it said, noting public support will be needed to allow the construction of power lines.
Rooftop solar will provide about 30% of renewable capacity, with 54GW of new capacity needed to increase the current 15GW capacity.
"By the mid-2040s, electricity supply is expected to be generated almost exclusively from renewable resources, with energy storages helping manage their seasonality and intermittency, and peaking gas generation providing firming support," the report said.
Risks include delays in major projects such as Snowy 2.0 giant pumped storage plant and the Marinus link between Tasmania and the mainland.
#248

The longer the war in Ukraine carries on, the worse the consequences will be for the climate, the US presidential envoy John Kerry has warned.
Many countries are struggling with an energy crisis while also urgently needing to cut greenhouse gas emissions to limit global heating to 1.5C, he said.
"If it's a long period of time, obviously that makes [staying within 1.5C] very complicated," Kerry said. "It depends on what happens with the war, where the war goes and how long it lasts. If miraculously we can somehow find a way to resolve some of the fundamental problems in the next six months, then maybe we could just accelerate everything together. I think we can make up some distance [in progress on tackling the climate crisis]."
But he added: "The longer this goes on, the harder it becomes [to stay within 1.5C]. There are a number of scientists who believe we are on the edge of 1.5C now. Anything that is not part of the acceleration [of emissions-cutting efforts] gets in the way."
He said the agreement reached at the UN Cop26 climate summit last year would have "faced some big hurdles" if taking place in the current geopolitical circumstances, but there was still a chance of fulfilling its promises.
"This is not easy, but it hasn't fallen apart," he told the Guardian. "[The effort to stay within 1.5C] has met with an unexpected barrier, the war, and it has met with an unfortunate and dangerous resurgence of business as usual by some parties that threatens the acceleration necessary to get the job done, and it's going to be up to us to push back and continue with the process."
The world's leading climate scientists recently warned it was "now or never" for the world to cut greenhouse gas emissions and avoid the worst ravages of the climate crisis.
Kerry said this showed there was still a chance of holding to the 1.5C goal. "The IPCC said to us a few weeks ago 'we're behind, it's not getting better at the pace it should be, emissions have gone up, but you still have time to do this'," he said. "And my message to people is we have to take advantage of the fact that the science tells us we still have time, but we have to greatly accelerate what we're doing. We have to speed up very significantly."
He said the disruption caused by the Ukraine war was forcing countries to reconsider their dependence on fossil fuels. "The promises of Cop26 were never going to be fulfilled in six months, or one year or two years. These are promises for 2030. A hiccup of a number of months may be something that we can work around or get through."
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST
Kerry also said the US would increase its production of natural gas, despite its climate targets, to help allies replace Russian fossil fuels. He said gas from the US produced lower carbon emissions than gas from Russia, owing to more efficient extraction, and could provide a short-term solution while countries ramp up renewable energy.
The US president, Joe Biden, has come under heavy criticism from green campaigners in the US for allowing the expansion of gas drilling, opening up new tracts of public land for exploration and development. Kerry said more gas was needed in the short term, to make up for supplies lost from Russia, but that companies should beware of building large amounts of new gas infrastructure that would be left as stranded assets when the energy crisis passes.
"Gas has always been part of the transition away from dirtier fossil fuels and towards this new energy economy," he said. "I'd take a gas-fired power plant in the near term - I emphasise near term - over coal or oil any day of the week. But we don't want to build out a huge new infrastructure around gas that has stranded asset challenges or is unabated [not fitted with technology to capture and store carbon] after a number of years."
He hinted at moves to limit how long such plants could operate. "We have to decide how quickly we must have a requisite for abatement - maybe 10 years, eight years, who knows? But for the long run, gas is going to have to abate and live up to low emissions standards just like everybody else," he said.
With six months to go before the next UN climate summit, Cop27 in Egypt, Kerry said the focus must be on the G20 countries, the world's 20 biggest economies, which are responsible for about 80% of global greenhouse gas emissions. The emissions-cutting plans these countries brought to Cop26 were inadequate to meet the 1.5C target, so they have been asked to come to Egypt this November with more stringent proposals.
Kerry acknowledged that many countries were unlikely to meet the targets, including Russia, which is one of the biggest fossil fuel producers. He warned some countries were "indifferent" to the need to cut emissions, or have vested interests in not doing so.
"The war is not the only thing that's in the way of the acceleration - an unfortunate indifference in some quarters, outright disinformation in others, and people who just love the status quo is perhaps one of our biggest problems," he said.
But there were hopes that major emitters including China and India were embracing change, he added. "We're prepared to try to help China or provide whatever China is willing to accept in terms of assistance."
He also pointed to India, currently suffering a massive heatwave, where a large expansion of renewable energy is planned that could enable the country to cut emissions in line with a global 1.5C temperature goal.
Kerry said he was hopeful that the climate legislation currently stuck in Congress, largely because of the refusal of a single Democratic senator to pass it, would soon be resolved. He said other countries were unlikely to be discouraged from taking action themselves by the US's own internal difficulties.
"Maybe they'll say 'screw them, they can't get their act together, we're going to do it'," he said. "I can't predict, but I can tell you this: that President Biden is committed to moving forward and obviously he has administrative powers and can issue certain executive orders and do certain things.
"Even while Donald Trump was president, pulled out of Paris, 75% of the new power that came online in the US was renewable. So the truth is that a lot of what happens in the US will be governed locally and some nationally by governors of states and mayors of cities who are deeply committed."
#249
People in "fuel-poor" households in England are facing annual bills about £250 higher than need be because of their poorly insulated homes, according to Local Government Association (LGA) research.
The LGA has identified about 3 million households where better insulation would save large sums for people struggling with the rising cost of living. About £770m is wasted each year trying to heat these leaky homes, according to analysis for the LGA by WPI Economics.
The LGA has called for all fuel-poor homes to be properly insulated by 2030, and calculates that at least two-thirds of the 3 million will need some form of government help to achieve this.
David Renard, a councillor and environment spokesperson for the LGA, which represents 350 local authorities in England and Wales, said: "So many homes are leaking more and more money as energy prices increase. This will hit stretched household budgets hard and the public purse, while adding to the climate crisis. Investment now will save households further down the line, ease the cost of living crisis and mean families have added security and flexibility within their budgets."
The LGA said improving people's homes would save about £500m for the NHS each year, as cold and damp homes contribute to illness. It would also lead to tens of thousands of new green jobs, the LGA said.
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST
Government help for insulating homes is targeted at the most vulnerable through the energy company obligation scheme, paid for through energy bills. However, this fails to reach many households and there is no widely available government scheme to help most other households in the UK. The Climate Change Committee warned in a scathing report this week that ministers were failing on insulation.
The government has targets of insulating about 900 homes a day by 2030.
The LGA said it was best placed to deliver insulation and energy efficiency, a view also taken by the CCC. But the CCC warned that the government had proved unwilling to work with local councils.
Renard said: "Ensuring homes are well insulated also means fewer people are at risk of the health risks associated with living in cold, damp conditions, and this is work we have to do as part of our drive to net zero. Councils are keen to help the government deliver on this win-win policy and increase the number of buildings insulated by winter."
#250
Britain's third-biggest energy supplier has apologised and said it was "embarrassed" after it advised customers to keep their heatings bills low by "having a cuddle with your pets", eating "hearty bowls of porridge" and "doing a few star jumps".
MPs called the guidance issued by a division of Ovo Energy on Monday "insulting" and "offensive", as millions of UK households are facing a "cost of living catastrophe" in the spring, including a rise in energy bills to as much as £2,000 a year on 1 April for an average household on a direct debit tariff.
The email sent out to customers of SSE Energy Services, which Ovo acquired in 2020, listed 10 "simple and cost-effective ways to keep warm this winter", such as "sticking to non-alcoholic drinks", doing household chores, having "a cuddle with your pets and loved ones to help stay cosy" and "encouraging blood flow" by eating ginger but avoiding chilli "as it makes you sweat".
Customers were also advised to "get moving" by "challenging the kids to a hula-hoop contest", and to drink more water, alongside the warning that the "warming feeling from wine or whisky is temporary as you'll soon lose heat from your core and end up feeling even colder", the Financial Times reported.
The Conservative MP and former cabinet minister Theresa Villiers said the advice was probably well intentioned but simultaneously "pretty insensitive". "Many people are very anxious about rising energy bills and won't take kindly to being told to do some star jumps," she said.
The Labour MP Darren Jones, who also chairs the House of Commons business, energy and industrial strategy committee, said the company should apologise to its customers. "Being told to put on a jumper instead of turning on your heating if you can't afford it, at a time of such difficulty for so many families, is plainly offensive," he said.
Clive Lewis, Labour MP for Norwich South, said the recommendations were "clown-like" and "depressing". "It is laughable and insulting, but then with this government's lack of an energy strategy, you almost expect it," he said, adding that the email "will be read by people who have to choose between eating and heating [...] if that's the state of the country we are now in, I find it quite depressing".
Record wholesale price increases for gas and electricity have prompted the government to examine possible ways of mitigating the effect on household bills, after Tory MPs called on Boris Johnson to act and help consumers.
Campaigners fear fuel poverty could hit the highest level since records began unless the government intervenes, warning that 6 million UK homes may be unable to pay energy bills after a further price hike in spring.
Ovo said: "We understand how difficult the situation will be for many of our customers this year. We are working hard to find meaningful solutions as we approach this energy crisis, and we recognise that the content of this blog was poorly judged and unhelpful. We are embarrassed and sincerely apologise."
#251
Senior figures in climate diplomacy, including the key architect of the Paris climate agreement, have urged the UK government to maintain its commitments to climate action, amid escalating attacks intended to generate a "culture war" on the net zero target.
Laurence Tubiana, the French diplomat who crafted the 2015 Paris agreement, now chief executive of the European Climate Foundation, said: "We are not happy, and we are crossing our fingers [that the UK will reaffirm its net zero commitment]. It's very important that the UK keeps this direction of travel."
She and other international observers are increasingly worried that the rows over net zero within the UK government, which have seen the Net Zero Scrutiny Group linking the cost-of-living crisis to the carbon reduction agenda, will undermine the progress made last year at the Cop26 UN climate talks.
The UK will continue to lead the talks until Egypt takes over at the next summit, Cop27, this November. British leadership will be essential to the success of Cop27, as countries must use the next eight months to revise their national emissions-cutting plans, known as nationally determined contributions (NDCs), as they agreed to do at Glasgow.
But British diplomats will be hamstrung if rows at home over net zero overshadow their efforts, and if support from key cabinet ministers - including the foreign secretary, Liz Truss, who has barely mentioned Cop26 although it was the biggest diplomatic event on British soil since the second world war - continues to be lukewarm or nonexistent.
Fatih Birol, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, praised the UK for the "really marvellous" achievements of Glasgow, and said it was "irresponsible" for some to claim that net zero was behind raising energy prices. "I hope the UK will continue with the leadership that we have seen at Glasgow, and go further to make sure that governments fulfil their pledges they have made before and during Glasgow. The UK is capable and responsible for making sure these are implemented."
Birol added: "The current high energy prices are nothing to do with net zero. This is not a clean energy crisis, or a renewable energy crisis. These claims are irresponsible and are being used to attack public support for the net zero transition."
Jennifer Morgan, the outgoing chief of Greenpeace International, told the Guardian shortly before her recent appointment as the German government's climate envoy that any indication the attacks on net zero were persuading ministers to backpedal would be severely damaging. "It would clearly reduce the UK's standing in the world, and as a partner for tackling the world's biggest issue," she said. "It would be a complete failure of leadership, and the world would judge [the UK government] harshly."
The British public was also being harmed, added Rachel Kyte, a former World Bank climate official, now dean of the Fletcher School at Tufts University and a climate adviser to the UN secretary-general. "There is something deeply disturbing about would-be political leaders jockeying for position by seizing on high energy prices, wilfully misdiagnosing the causes as shifting to renewable energy, and then suggesting as a remedy a harmful about-face by abandoning net zero goals. It is perverse and disingenuous, selling the British public out, and the opposite of the long view demanded of leaders today in combating climate change," she said.
Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House climate adviser, now with the Progressive Policy Institute, said that although political attention was focused on Biden's stimulus, the UK government's moves on net zero were also viewed with concern. "Boris Johnson's dedication to net zero is seen in Washington as a linchpin for greater ambition by nations around the world, including at Cop27, so his recent troubles and backbencher bellyaches on climate are worrisome," he warned. "Johnson should never allow the Tory right fringe to undermine his climate legacy."
#252
Light pollution has decreased as a result of fears over soaring energy costs, a survey by the countryside charity CPRE has suggested.
Stargazers have been enjoying the best view of the night sky since 2011, as light pollution sharply dropped during the pandemic lockdowns and the levels continue to fall despite restrictions having been lifted.
Reasons light pollution has fallen, according to the charity, include households being more conscious about wasting energy due to high prices, and councils reducing street lighting. A continued trend of home working has also caused a reduction in light pollution from offices.
In February and March this year, 2,500 people took part in the star count survey, in which they were asked to report the number of stars they could see in the Orion constellation. Light pollution, which the charity tracks by recording where people are able to see 10 or fewer stars with the naked eye, has continued to fall.
Allow content provided by a third party?
This article includes content hosted on theguardian.. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as the provider may be using cookies and other technologies. To view this content, click 'Allow and continue'.
Allow and continue
After peaking in 2020, when 61% of participants reported seeing 10 or fewer stars, severe light pollution fell to 51% of respondents in 2021 and continued its slide this year, to 49%. The charity hopes that even if energy prices fall, people, councils and businesses will continue to limit the lighting they use at night. This would reduce carbon emissions and help wildlife.
Emma Marrington, CPRE's dark skies campaigner, said: "Half of the people who took part in [the] star count experienced severe light pollution that obscures their view of the night sky. This is bad for wildlife and human health - and the energy being needlessly wasted is bad financially and bad for our planet.
"But the good news is that these results show small adaptations can make a big difference. If there is a silver lining from the legacy of lockdown and, now, the soaring cost of energy, it is that it has never been clearer how simple it is to cut carbon emissions and energy bills while improving our natural environment."
The charity has been campaigning for legal protection for the night sky, and also has called for local authorities to better plan where they put street light, so it is used effectively and does not cause needless pollution.
Crispin Truman, the chief executive of CPRE, said: "Our view of the night sky - and all the benefits it undoubtedly brings - is being blotted out by light pollution. Like all forms of pollution, it is damaging our mental and physical health, and also having a severe impact on wildlife. Yet, it is a form of pollution that is allowed to increase year on year without any effort being made to control the damage it is causing."
#253


The British insurer Prudential is working with the Asian Development Bank on a scheme to buy out coal-fired power plants in Asia in order to shut them down within 15 years.
Its backers say the plan is designed to limit use of the polluting fossil fuel while allowing workers time to find new jobs and incentivising countries to invest in clean energy alternatives.
The Guardian understands there have been "promising" early talks with Asian governments and multilateral banks about the programme, known as the "energy transition mechanism" (ETM), which could also include the banking groups HSBC, Citi and BlackRock Real Assets.
Don Kanak, the chair of Prudential Insurance Growth Markets, said that a "well funded mechanism like ETM" could help developing countries "make big progress on climate goals in the next 10-15 years, not deferring the heavy lifting until mid-century".
"The world cannot possibly hit the Paris climate targets unless we accelerate the retirement and replacement of existing coal-fired electricity, opening up much larger room in the near term for renewables and storage," Kanak said.
"This is especially [true] in Asia, where existing coal fleets are big and young and will otherwise operate for decades. That's why we conceived the energy transition mechanism and worked with ADB and others to validate feasibility."
Prudential and ADB hope to have a model ready for the UN's Cop26 climate conference, which is being held in Glasgow in November. Alok Sharma, a former UK business secretary and now president-designate of Cop26, said he would make it a "personal priority" to consign coal to history because of the major role it plays in the climate crisis by accounting for about a fifth of the world's greenhouse gas emissions.
Kanak added that the framework had already been presented to finance ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the European Commission and European development officials.
A spokesperson for the ADB was not available to comment on the plans.
The potential role of big UK lenders in the scheme, first reported by Reuters, has raised eyebrows among climate campaigners because of the recent track record among many banks in financing new coal plants in Asia.
Adam McGibbon, a campaigner at Market Forces, which calls for financial institutions to use their wealth to protect the environment, said the initiative would "only have meaning if HSBC commits to no longer finance the expansion of the fossil fuel industry and phases out its fossil fuel financing in line with the goals of the Paris agreement. Otherwise, this is just HSBC trying to make money from both ends of the climate catastrophe," he said.
HSBC has vowed to phase out coal financing by 2040 but participated earlier this year in a $400m (£290m) loan to the Indonesian coal company Adaro Energy, which produced 54m tonnes of coal in 2020.
A spokesperson for HSBC said the company "has a clear net zero ambition".
#254

Boris Johnson has said the UK may have to increase its domestic gas and oil production in order to wean itself off Russian resources, despite the opposition of climate campaigners and some scepticism in the cabinet.
The prime minister said the UK was looking at increasing North Sea output, although critics say it would take two decades to ramp up significantly and would have little immediate effect on the impending rise in domestic energy bills.
Speaking at a Downing Street press conference, Johnson said: "One of the things we are looking at is the possibility of using more of our own hydrocarbons, and you'll have heard already about what the business secretary has had to say about licences for UK domestic production.
"That doesn't mean we are abandoning our commitment to reducing CO2 ... We have got to reflect the reality that there is a crunch on at the moment. We need to intensify our self-reliance as a transition with more hydrocarbons."
Johnson said he would be setting out an energy supply strategy in the days ahead "so that people have a sense of how we are going to meet people's needs over the short, medium and long term".
He insisted the increased focus on North Sea production would not undermine the UK's push for net zero, but claimed it was a necessary move to ease the transition to renewables and nuclear.
Standing alongside Justin Trudeau, the Canadian prime minister, and Mark Rutte, the Dutch prime minister, he said a ban on Russian fossil fuels was "very much on the table". But he also agreed with Rutte that it could not be immediate and needed to be done "step by step", with countries each going at their own pace.
Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, global oil and gas prices have climbed, with the price of Brent crude at $139 a barrel - its highest level in 14 years - bringing the average petrol price to a record high of 155p a litre. The price of gas has soared by 70% since Friday to 800p a therm - 20 times its level two years ago. The extraction of oil and gas off the coast of the UK may be more economically viable with high oil and gas prices.
However, climate campaigners gave a scathing verdict. Greenpeace UK's head of politics, Rebecca Newsom, said: "Boris Johnson is right that we urgently need to end our dependence on Russian gas, but more drilling in the North Sea is not the solution. It could take a quarter of a century to open up new gas fields, and the product will then be sold to the highest bidder on the global market, having no impact on our energy bills. It makes a lot more sense to reduce our gas dependence by insulating homes, installing heat pumps and boosting renewables.
Some cabinet ministers who support the push for net zero are concerned that Tories opposed to the target are using Russia's invasion of Ukraine to undermine climate goals. The Times reported on Monday that Johnson was prepared to give gas companies a "climate pass" in order to increase reliance on the fossil fuel while the west weans off Russian gas, even at the expense of climate change targets.
A source close to one pro-net zero cabinet minister said: "There's been a resurgence of this kind of argument, but it's for the birds that anything is going to change. Every G7 country has a net zero target, and we now know, given the circumstances in Ukraine, that getting to net zero is very much in the interests of national security."
Another cabinet source said it made sense to continue North Sea production as it was better to have gas supply domestically than elsewhere, but highlighted that "gas is expensive, and more expensive than any renewable", adding that there was no quick fix for the problem of high prices.

The climate change committee, which advises the government on reaching net zero and other targets, has said the best way of reducing the UK's exposure to volatile prices was cutting fossil fuel consumption. Overall, it backed a tighter limit on production and a presumption against exploration.
"Any increases in UK extraction of oil and gas would have, at most, a marginal effect on the prices faced by UK consumers in future," it said.
However, it has also said the evidence is not clear-cut as UK extraction has a "relatively low carbon footprint [more clearly for gas than for oil] and the UK will continue to be a net importer of fossil fuels for the foreseeable future, implying there may be emissions advantages to UK production replacing imports". It also highlighted energy security factors.
#255
Germany's two houses of parliament have passed emergency legislation to reactivate mothballed coal-fired power plants in order to support electricity generation amid fears of gas shortages as Russia curbs capacity.
The move has been described as "painful but necessary" by the government's environmentalist economics minister, Robert Habeck. It has the backing of leading Greens in the coalition government, who argue it is needed as a short-term crisis management tool.
It was given final approval by the upper house of parliament on Friday, passed along with a package of measures to boost the expansion of renewable energies - in part by classifying them as a matter of public security - including by setting a minimum on the proportion of land each federal state must allow for windfarms.
But environmental campaigners argue the potential return to using such a highly polluting energy is a compromise too far and that Germany is in danger of missing even its most basic climate targets.
Before the Ukraine conflict, Germany planned to phase out coal by 2030 as it is far more carbon intensive than gas. But when gas supplies from Russia - on which Germany is highly dependent - started running short after Russia reduced the flow, moves were made to restart coal-fired power plants that had been mothballed.
The measures are meant to help wean Germany off Russian gas, making it less open to blackmail, and to preserve energy supplies before winter, using coal to produce electricity instead of gas, which needs to be saved for a wide range of industrial processes.
Industry bosses welcomed the move on Friday. In a statement, the Federation of German Industries (BDI) called the decision "better late than never".
It said: "Politics and the economy must urgently use the summer months in order to save gas, to ensure the storage facilities are full ahead of the coming heating season. Otherwise we face a grave gas shortage with a sharp decline in industrial production. In this tense situation what counts is every single day and every cubic metre of gas we can save."
Gas storage facilities were only about one-third full when war broke out. By Friday they had gradually been filled to about 63% capacity, amid saving measures and efforts to procure supplies from elsewhere. But they are still a considerable way off a 90% goal to be reached by 1 November, which experts say should just about see Germany through the winter.
Already households and industry have been urged to save as much energy as possible. Habeck has talked about reducing the length of his showers, and is encouraging Germans to do the same. Elsewhere municipalities have introduced measures to cut down on street lighting, to reduce the temperature of swimming pools, and some housing associations have even started rationing supplies of hot water to their tenants.
Gas bills have already doubled and could as much as quadruple over the winter. "We are talking about increases amounting to a month's income for some families," Haback has warned.
At the start of the war, Germans were being urged to cut gas usage to punish Vladimir Putin. Now the message has switched to cutting gas to ensure warmth in winter.
Supplies of gas from Russia via the pipeline Nord Stream 1 that runs through the Baltic Sea to Germany have been reduced to about 40% of the usual levels. On Monday an annual maintenance project on the pipeline, which is expected to shut it down for about 10 days, is being viewed as a crunch moment. There are widespread fears, supported by Habeck and other government figures, that Russia could use the opportunity to shut the pipeline down completely, on the pretext of failing parts.
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am
Habeck told parliament on Thursday that Germany was a hostage to circumstance, but also blamed the energy policies of the former government of Angela Merkel. "If you pose in front of melting icebergs, and rightly make a decision to turn your back on [nuclear] energy but forget that you need to build up an infrastructure for that to work, if you make climate policy decisions but don't back them up with measures, then it's like leaving Germany standing in the rain," he said.
Klaus Ernst, the chair of the parliamentary committee on climate protection and energy, said the decision to reignite coal-fired plants amounted to a "climate policy disaster".
Ernst, a member of the far-left Links party, said by imposing sanctions on Russia for which it was now seeking revenge, Germany had put itself in the position of "grasping at measures which hit our own country harder than the country we meant to hit with sanctions".
He said that should gas supplies from Russia stop, Germany would face its worst economic crisis since the second world war.
Ricarda Lang, the chair of the Greens, said the coal-plant decision made her "stomach ache", but that in the short term it was vital to ensure energy security over the coming months. "It is therefore right that we're enabling coal plants to be used again, but at the same time we of course need to bust a gut to ensure that we still manage to stick to our goal of withdrawing from coal by 2030."
#256
Keir Starmer has put a beefed-up £8bn windfall tax on energy company profits at the heart of a new plan to stop people having to pay "a penny more" on fuel bills this winter.
The Labour leader confirmed that under his plan the energy price cap would be frozen at the current level, meaning that an expected 80% rise in October - taking an average household bill to about £3,600 - would not go ahead.
Starmer said the country was facing "a national emergency" and that Labour "wouldn't let people pay a penny more" on energy bills as a result of his "fully funded plan". A typical family would save £1,000, he claimed.
He said: "Britain's cost of living crisis is getting worse, leaving people scared about how they'll get through the winter. Labour's plan to save households £1,000 this winter and invest in sustainable British energy to bring bills down in the long term is a direct response to the national economic emergency that is leaving families fearing for the future."
Starmer said the plan would cost £29bn over the winter and that it could be funded by extending the scope of the windfall tax on energy companies (raising £8bn), halting the proposed £400 payments for all households offered by the government to compensate for the price cap rise scheduled for October (saving £14bn), and lowering government interest payments on debt (saving £7bn), which Labour said would be possible because its plan would reduce inflation.
Last week Sir Ed Davey, the Lib Dem leader, and Gordon Brown, the former Labour prime minister, called for the energy price cap to be frozen at its current level and released plans explaining how this could be funded.
This led to criticism that Starmer, who was on holiday at the time, was letting them, rather than the Labour leadership, set the agenda.
Starmer's plan was released as it was reported that Boris Johnson was on his second foreign holiday of the summer. He was photographed with his wife, Carrie, in a town near Athens. Earlier this month the couple had a break in an eco-hotel in Slovenia.
The energy price cap is now set at £1,971 and it is expected to almost double in October, with a further increase expected in January. Economists and charities have said millions of households will be plunged into poverty as a result, or left unable to pay.
The government has not proposed suspending the energy price cap rise, but it has announced an array of measures intended to help people pay their bills, and Johnson has said he is certain that his successor will offer more help in the autumn.
But neither Liz Truss, the foreign secretary and frontrunner in the contest to replace him, nor Rishi Sunak, her rival and the former chancellor, are calling for the energy price cap to be frozen.
And although both of them have signalled that that they would offer extra cash support to households, neither have proposed a full plan to fund this other than through extra borrowing. Truss maintains that her real priority is cutting the tax burden.
Starmer stressed that his proposal for the winter was part of a wider plan that also involves insulating 19m homes over the next decade. If the government had started that when Labour proposed it a year ago, 2m homes could have been insulated by now, saving typical occupants £1,000 a year, he claimed.
Under the energy price cap, Labour would need £29bn to pay energy companies to cover the gap between what they would receive from customers and what they would have to pay for energy on the wholesale market.
As well as freezing the energy price cap, the Labour plan would involve support for people not protected by the price cap, and a scheme to ensure people on prepayment meters do not have to pay more for their energy than people paying monthly.
Brown, as part of his plan, suggested the government should consider taking energy companies into temporary public ownership. Starmer has rejected this proposal on the grounds that money from the package should go towards helping customers, not compensating shareholders, a party source said.
To raise an extra £8bn from the windfall tax, Labour would close a loophole allowing tax relief on fossil fuel investment and backdate the tax to January.
The Labour announcement was welcomed by Davey. "Now that progressive parties and charities are speaking with one voice to cancel the energy price hike using a windfall tax, the woeful response from Liz Truss and Rishi Sunak is even more outrageous," the Lib Dem leader said.
"The government's dither and delay from this prime minister and any future prime minister is deeply damaging for pensioners and families across the country."
Labour says that as a result of its plan, energy bills would add just two percentage points to inflation over the winter, instead of the six percentage points currently forecast. This figure has been backed up by analysis from the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR) thinktank.
Luke Murphy, an associate director for climate and energy at the IPPR, said Labour's plans would "prevent soaring energy bills from pushing millions into debt and destitution, and hold down ever rising inflation which is a risk to the UK's economic stability".
But many international and domestic economic thinktanks have urged the government to boost means-tested benefits to target the households most at risk from rising energy bills.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has rebuked European countries, including the UK, for offering universal subsidies that also benefit better-off households in addition to higher benefits.
Adrian Pabst, the deputy director of public policy at the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, said: "I find it surprising that political parties should want to subsidise the companies that supply energy, and by that households that are better able to cope with the energy shock. It is more socially equitable to deal with the problem by increasing universal credit."
Pabst was sceptical that a freeze in the cap would bring down inflation by a significant margin and that the Bank of England would react by halting expected interest rate rises.
#257

Young victims of the climate crisis will on Tuesday launch legal action at Europe's top human rights court against an energy treaty that protects fossil fuel investors.
Five people, aged between 17 and 31, who have experienced devastating floods, forest fires and hurricanes are bringing a case to the European court of human rights, where they will argue that their governments' membership of the little-known energy charter treaty (ECT) is a dangerous obstacle to action on the climate crisis. It is the first time that the Strasbourg court will be asked to consider the treaty, a secretive investor court system that enables fossil fuel companies to sue governments for lost profits.
"It just can't be that the fossil fuel industry is still more protected than our human rights," said Julia, a 17-year-old high school student from Germany, who said she was joining the legal challenge after catastrophic lethal floods came to her home region, the Ahr valley, last July.
She and her parents had to flee their home when the flood waters came. Recalling the escape with the water around her hips, she said: "It was really scary and going through the water felt like losing the ground underneath my feet." During the floods 222 people died in Germany and Belgium. "So that's why I decided to join this legal action, to fight against the energy charter treaty still protecting the fuel industry."
The claimants are suing 12 ECHR member states, including France, Germany and the UK because these countries are home to companies that have been active users of the ECT charter. The German energy company RWE is suing the Netherlands for €1.4bn (£1.2bn) over its plans to phase out coal; Rockhopper Exploration, based in the UK, is suing the Italian government after it banned new drilling near the coast.
The claimants argue that membership of the ECT violates the right to life (article two) and right to respect for private and family life (article eight) of the European convention on human rights.
The case comes as the ECT falls under growing scrutiny. The treaty - which has about 55 member countries, including EU states, the UK and Japan - has been described as a real threat to the Paris agreement; it could allow companies to sue governments for an estimated €1.3tn until 2050 in compensation for early closure of coal, oil and gas plants. Activists and whistleblowers say these vast sums would stymie the green transition, while time is running out to keep within the 1.5C global heating limit.
The legal action comes as a letter to EU leaders by 76 climate scientists seen by the Guardian says that continuing to protect fossil fuel investors under ECT rules would prevent the closure of fossil fuel plants or ensure huge compensation payouts if shutdowns went ahead.
"Both options will jeopardise the EU climate neutrality target and the EU Green deal," said the letter, which calls for the current French presidency of the EU to work towards a withdrawal of member states from the treaty. "In these days of climate and energy struggles, the EU climate leadership is more than ever needed to 'make our planet great again'."
And later this week ECT members will meet to negotiate the "modernisation" of the 1994 treaty. The European Commission, which negotiates on behalf of the EU's 27 member states, has proposed a gradual phase out of fossil fuel investor protection by the end of 2040.
Campaigners said this is too little too late, and fault a compromise proposal seen as designed to placate countries that want to protect fossil fuel investors, such as Japan. "The options that are being discussed are too weak to make the ECT compatible with the Paris agreement or with EU law," said Cornelia Maarfield, senior trade and investment policy coordinator at the Climate Action Network Europe.
France, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and Spain have already instructed the commission to study how the EU could withdraw from the ECT, amid scepticism that the treaty can ever be compatible with the EU's climate goals, according to leaked documents published by the Euractiv website last month.
The ECT secretariat, based in Brussels, argues that the ECT does not privilege fossil fuels and upholds the rule of law for investors.
Activists rejected this characterisation. "We are not advocating that they break international law," said Maarfield. "Even in the ECT, there is a clause about withdrawal. So there is absolutely no breaking any law to withdraw from an agreement, according to the rules that are stipulated in this agreement. And the withdrawal procedure in ECT is very easy."
#258
African countries should be able to exploit their vast natural gas reserves despite the urgent need to cut global greenhouse gas emissions, the former UN climate envoy Mary Robinson has said.
Robinson, the chair of the Elders group of former world statespeople and business leaders, said African countries' need for energy was so great that they should use gas widely, in contrast to developed countries that must halt their gas use as quickly as possible to stave off climate breakdown.
"Africa is trying to get its voice out about its needs for just, equitable energy, and of course that implies some use of gas as a just transition," she told the Guardian in an interview.
She pointed to the 600 million people in Africa without access to electricity and the 900 million who use biomass or dirty oil cooking stoves, who could use gas as a less polluting alternative. "There has to be a certain leeway to tackle the energy poverty in Africa, and give Africa a faster capability to move," she said.
African leaders will bring forward similar arguments ahead of Cop27 in Sharm el-Sheikh in November, which is certain to make the issue a flashpoint at the UN climate summit that is seen as a chance for African countries to gain global attention for their vulnerability to the climate crisis, and their economic potential.
Robinson's intervention is likely to inflame controversy after two weeks of UN preparatory talks for Cop27 convened in Bonn, Germany, from Monday. While some back the idea that African gas can be exploited while the EU and developed countries find green alternatives, others see an African dash for gas as a potential disaster.
With gas prices high and likely to remain so, and with most of Africa's potential reserves owned or licensed by foreign companies, it would be difficult to keep African gas on the continent, rather than sold to the highest bidder.
Thuli Makama, the Africa programme director at the campaign group Oil Change International, said: "Africa should not be pressured to exploit fossil fuel reserves to serve the international community in the face of Russia's unprovoked war, and Africa does not need to develop these reserves to meet its energy access needs. It's a myth that fossil fuels are good for development."
African countries are also unhappy that developed countries have exploited their own gas and are now seeking new sources because of soaring prices and supply constraints following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Africa has major gas reserves in countries including Nigeria, Mozambique and Senegal but many are still largely unexploited.
Mohamed Maait, Egypt's finance minister, made the argument last month on a visit to London. He warned rich countries not to appear to "punish" the poor world and gave the example of Senegal, where major gas discoveries are expected that could transform the economy - but would also constitute a vast "carbon bomb" of the kind that if exploited would lead to temperature rises far exceeding the 1.5C limit targeted in Glasgow.
"Senegal were hoping this discovery would help them. Now you are coming to say, climate change means stopping the finance," said Maait. "That is very worrying."
Urging Africa to drill for gas marks a change of heart for Robinson, who before last year's Cop26 summit heavily criticised the UK government for its involvement in financing a new gasfield in Mozambique. She also called the UK's tax breaks for North Sea oil and gas "a form of madness".
Robinson, the former president of Ireland and an influential figure in global climate diplomacy, acknowledged she had been very reluctant to encourage fresh exploitation of gas, but Africa's energy poverty was so great that the transition to gas was needed.
"Some people think it's a dangerous message," she said. "You can see my dilemma. I'm utterly committed to [climate action], I couldn't be more on-message about how serious that is. But it's not a one size fits all."
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST
The International Energy Agency has warned that no new oil and gas should come onstream in future if the world is to limit global heating to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels. The Guardian has uncovered nearly 200 carbon bombs, a significant number of them in Africa, representing oil and gas deposits that if exploited would result in greenhouse gas emissions going far beyond 1.5C or 2C of heating.
"If we had done the right thing and invested in clean energy for African companies at scale, we would be in a different place, but we haven't done that," said Robinson. "And now we have to understand that African countries are hit by the climate crisis disproportionately."
She said European countries and the US, which are still heavily reliant on fossil fuels, had no basis on which to advise African countries to leave their reserves alone.
However, Jamie Peters, a campaigner at Friends of the Earth, said: "Fossil fuel extraction hasn't brought prosperity for the vast majority of Africans and further developments will only bring more damage. There needs to be a rapid move to develop clean energy systems in Africa to provide energy security and much-needed jobs - and this should be funded by the rich, industrialised nations that have done most to create the climate crisis."
#259
More than 20 countries and financial institutions will halt all financing for fossil fuel development overseas and divert the spending to green energy instead from next year.
The move marks a significant boost for the transition to clean fuels. The Guardian understands the countries involved include the US, UK, Denmark and some developing countries that would receive such finance, including Costa Rica. The European Investment Bank is one of the financial institutions involved.
Diverting their funding from fossil fuels to low-carbon efforts will generate an estimated $8bn a year around the world for clean energy. The agreement will prevent the funding of any fossil fuel development, including gas, though there are provisions for loopholes.
However, China and Japan, two big funders of fossil fuel development around the world, have shunned the initiative.
The countries involved will also be able to continue developing their own fossil fuel resources at home, including oil and gas fields.
The US has at least 24 pending fossil fuel projects representing more than 1.6 gigatons of potential greenhouse gas emissions. The UK is licensing new oil and gas fields in the North Sea, despite hosting the Cop26 climate summit in Glasgow.
The UK will also be able to press ahead with funding a controversial gasfield in Mozambique, because that project is already in the pipeline and the initiative covers only new investments. Funding for fossil fuels from private sources will also not be affected by the agreement.
The move also builds on the UK's efforts to end the overseas financing of coal, as president of the G7 this year as well as host of Cop26.
The G7 agreed in May to stop funding coal development overseas, despite resistance from Japan, and China - one of the biggest funders of coal development around the world.
Collin Rees, the programme manager at the Oil Change International campaign group, said the initiative, which will be made public on Thursday when the Cop26 summit is focusing on energy issues, would mark a major change in outlook for fossil fuel investment around the world.
He said: "This is a massive step forward. This represents a serious chunk of the current international public finance for fossil fuels. It's a really big thing, though there may be some devil in the detail."
Rees pointed to the advice of the International Energy Agency, published in May, that found all new development of fossil fuel resources globally must end after this year if the world was to limit global heating to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels.
"This move is significant in light of the IEA report," he said.
#260

More than 650 scientists are urging world leaders to stop burning trees to make energy because it destroys valuable habitats for wildlife.
In the buildup to Cop15, the UN biodiversity summit, they say countries urgently need to stop using forest bioenergy to create heat and electricity as it undermines international climate and nature targets. Instead, renewable energy sources such as wind and solar should be used, they say.
Bioenergy has "wrongly been deemed 'carbon neutral'" and many countries are increasingly relying on forest biomass to meet net zero goals, according to the letter, addressed to world leaders including Joe Biden, Rishi Sunak and the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen. "The best thing for the climate and biodiversity is to leave forests standing - and biomass energy does the opposite," it says.
The letter says that if global leaders agree to protect 30% of land and sea by 2030 at the Cop15 meeting in Montreal, they must also commit to ending reliance on biomass energy. Commitments made at Cop15 and at climate conferences could be undermined if this practice continues, it says.
Prof Alexandre Antonelli, a lead author of the letter and director of science at Kew Gardens, said: "Ensuring energy security is a major societal challenge, but the answer is not to burn our precious forests. Calling this 'green energy' is misleading and risks accelerating the global biodiversity crisis."
By 2030, bioenergy is expected to account for a third of "low-carbon" energy, according to a report by the International Energy Agency.
The UK is the top importer of wood pellets for biomass, and in 2019 more than 5m metric tonnes of them were brought in from the US. Burning biomass is an important part of the UK's net zero strategy, and has been subsidised by £5.6bn over the past decade.
Cutting down trees for bioenergy results in the release of carbon that would otherwise had been locked up in carbon-rich forests. This increases emissions and creates "carbon debt", which is only paid off decades or even centuries later if the trees are regrown, the scientists say.
Burning wood for electricity is also inefficient, releasing comparatively more carbon into the atmosphere than gas or coal. Additional energy is used to harvest and transport the wood. Experts have been warning for years about the climate impacts of bioenergy, but now they are also finding out that it has dire risks for nature too, with many cases of protected forests being affected.
Canada, Estonia and the US are the largest providers of wood for biomass. Prof William Moomaw, a lead author of the letter from Tufts University in Massachusetts in the US, said: "Our forests are the most biodiverse places on the planet, providing habitat for countless species. They are also absorbing nearly 30% of all global emissions from burning fossil fuels.
"Clearcutting for forest bioenergy is degrading the south-east US coastal forests, a global biodiversity hotspot, the Baltic states in Europe, boreal forests in Canada, and illegally cutting protected forest ecosystems in the Carpathians of eastern Europe. These are all home to irreplaceable rare plant species, mammals, and migratory and residential birds."
Rare species such as the prothonotary warbler, the boreal woodland caribou and the black stork are among those declining as a result of forest degradation.
Elly Pepper, from the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) and Cut Carbon Not Forests Coalition (CCNF), said: "Governments and the bioenergy industry each have one hand on an axe that is decimating the world's forests. Continuing to put a fake renewable like biomass energy at the heart of their net zero plans will undermine any global deal promising to save nature by 2030.
"The world's wildlife is already vanishing, and the bioenergy industry is helping to accelerate that by destroying precious forest habitats.
#261
What is the relationship between Russia's threats to Ukraine and the gas price crisis?
Gas prices are soaring globally, largely because of the resurgence of demand for fossil fuels after the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns, depleted storage and the difficulty of ramping up supply after the disruptions of the past two years. But prices have also been significantly affected by Russia's recent decision to tighten gas supplies to Europe, which experts believe was driven by Vladimir Putin's desire to move against Ukraine.
Europe is dependent on Russia for about 40% of its natural gas supplies, and despite the expansion of renewable energy over the past two decades, that dependency is increasing as countries shift to gas, away from dirtier coal. Germany is particularly vulnerable, as it has shut down nearly all of its nuclear power stations and aims to eliminate coal by 2030.
A major new gas pipeline, Gazprom's $11bn Nord Stream 2 from Russia across the Baltic to Germany, which would heat 26m German homes, has been the focus of Germany's diplomatic relations with Russia since it was announced in 2015. Construction on the 1,200km pipeline was completed last year, but no gas has yet flowed and its future is now in doubt as Germany's chancellor Olaf Scholz dramatically halted approval for the project on Tuesday.
Russia's gas pipelines to Europe
Concerns that Russia is using its gas supplies as a weapon to achieve its political aims are well founded. Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency, noted that Russia's decision to drop gas supplies to Europe by a quarter came as it was heightening tension towards Ukraine. "I hope this was only a coincidence," he told the Guardian.
Is this really another war over fossil fuels?
No. Energy resources are not the focus of this threatened conflict. Vladimir Putin has a long history of territorial ambitions in former Soviet nations, which he made explicit this week, and of attempts to exert political control over Ukraine. Putin is said by supporters to be concerned over the possibility of Nato expansion, although many analysts say this is a pretext.
So the Ukraine crisis is not a war over resources, but it has many implications for resource use. Russia is effectively weaponising its dominance over European gas supply for political ends. Reducing reliance on Russian gas is an urgent necessity for the EU to reach net zero emissions, and would also diminish Putin's political leverage over the EU.
It is also worth noting that in the longer term, as Europe weans itself off gas and pursues net zero emissions, the value of this political weapon will wane rapidly. Russia's industries have never recovered from the fall of communism, and its economy is now based overwhelmingly on the export of fossil fuels, with much of the rest made up of energy-dependent mineral resources, such as iron, steel, aluminium and other metals, and some agriculture.
Four in 10 roubles accruing to Russia's federal budget pre-pandemic came from oil and gas, which made up 60% of Russian exports in 2019. Kremlin strategists are therefore keenly aware that in the longer term the global move to net zero threatens the whole basis of Russia's economy and global influence.
Why is Europe so dependent on Russian gas?
Historically, much of Europe was heavily dependent on coal for power and heating. Renewable energy generation has more than doubled since 2004, and reached 22% of final energy production in 2020.
However, at the same time the share generated from nuclear power has fallen, from about a third of the EU's electricity in 1995 to about a quarter today. After the accident at Japan's Fukushima nuclear power plant in 2011, Germany's then chancellor Angela Merkel announced an "Energiewende" - an energy shift - that would see all of the country's reactors shut down.
This has increased Germany's need for gas, and similar moves away from coal and towards lower emissions in other countries - including the UK, which despite North Sea gas production is a net importer of gas - have heightened the dependency.
The geopolitical implications of this dependency, as well as the climate impacts, are now unignorable. Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House climate adviser, now with the Progressive Policy Institute in Washington DC, says: "It has taken the current crisis for Germany and the EU to recognise that its co-dependence on Russian gas is a geopolitical and climate nightmare from which they must finally awake. Reducing Russian gas reliance is a huge climate and moral imperative that Europe must prioritise."
Will Russia turn off gas supplies to Europe if the EU and the UK impose sanctions?
That would be a momentous move from Russia. Any further reductions of Russian gas supply to Europe would have severe consequences, for Europe but also for Russia itself. Birol said earlier this month, before sanctions were imposed: "If Russia stops the gas supply to Europe, it could have a seismic impact on European energy. [Russia] has to consider the consequences if existing oil and gas supplies to Europe are halted."
He added: "Failure to maintain [supplies] would shatter Russia's reputation as a reliable partner and that would be a tectonic shift. Russia would be seen as a threat and that would have far-reaching consequences for European economies, but even more consequences for Russia. Europe would choose a strategy to diverge from Russia."
What impact will Russia's actions in Ukraine have on climate diplomacy?
Russia was almost invisible at the Cop26 UN climate summit in Glasgow last November, after a surprising public commitment to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2060. But the Kremlin has left the details of the goal vague and shown little sign of updating Russia's emissions commitments for 2030, which are key to limiting global temperature rises to 1.5C.
This is a crucial year for climate diplomacy, as the pledges from all countries in Glasgow are still inadequate for the 1.5C goal, and the UK Cop26 presidency is hoping for major progress before the next UN climate meeting in Egypt this November. Russia's stance on Ukraine will certainly have an impact on those discussions, not least as any conflict will focus attention on the move from fossil fuels.
It is also notable that Russia's oil and gas operations are among the worst in the world for the climate. Data released this week by the IEA shows that emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas and the major component of natural gas, are 70% higher than countries had claimed.
Russia makes little or no attempt to capture methane from its oil and gas drilling, and to stop its pipelines leaking, so there are huge opportunities. If Putin were serious about tackling the climate crisis, Russia could provide an invaluable service to the rest of the world by plugging these leaks - reducing methane globally by a third by 2030 could reduce temperatures by 0.2C - and at current gas prices this could be done at no net cost and could even be profitable.
Should the UK be fracking more, or producing more from the North Sea, to reduce dependency on Russian gas?
No. Attempts to frack in the UK started more than a decade ago, but went nowhere, in part because of protests but also because the economics of industrial fracking in a densely populated country make it impractical. Any move to restart fracking now would take many years to produce any gas, long after the current gas price crisis has been forgotten.
New licences for oil and gas exploration in the North Sea are also currently under consideration by the government, and on Thursday the Committee on Climate Change will publish its advice to ministers on whether these licences can be compatible with the UK's climate goals. However, any newly licensed fields would also take years to come into production, so would have no impact on the current crisis.
Bob Ward, policy director at the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change at the London School of Economics, warns of falling for false solutions: "We know that some opponents of climate policy will try to hide the truth and instead fool the public into falsely believing that the soaring prices are due to green energy. If they are successful, they might slow down the transition to clean domestic energy."
Far more good could be done in the shorter term by insulating homes and ramping up renewable energy generation.
What is the answer to the crisis?
Rachel Kyte, dean of the Fletcher School at Tufts University in the US and an adviser to the UN secretary-general on the climate, says: "The west needs to meet Putin's flagrant breach of international law with tough sanctions to force a change in calculus in Moscow. Putin believes he has to the largest extent sanction-proofed Russia, but Russia earns hundreds of millions of dollars a day from sales of oil and refined products, and more from sales of gas and minerals.
"Weaning ourselves off these as quickly as possible is one route available to the west. In fact, Putin's understanding of what decarbonisation would mean for Russian energy exports in the medium and long term may be a factor in the timing of Putin's attack on Ukraine now."
Ending the use of fossil fuels is imperative, to reach net zero emissions and stave off the worst impacts of climate breakdown. But the shift will also create geopolitical tensions as the world's massive fossil fuel exporters - Russia, Saudi Arabia and some other Middle Eastern countries, Latin American oil producers, Australia - begin to lose out economically. The crisis in Ukraine shows that some fossil fuel producers at least may not want to give up without a struggle the political leverage they gain from their resources.
#262
For the first time the world is in a position to limit global heating to under 2C, according to the first in-depth analysis of the net zero pledges made by nations at the UN Cop26 climate summit in December.
Before these pledges it was more than likely that at the peak of the climate crisis there would be a temperature rise above 2C, bringing more severe impacts for billions of people. Now it is more likely that the peak temperature rise will be about 1.9C.
However, the researchers said this depended on all nations implementing their pledges on time and in full, and warned that the policies to do so were not in place. The pledges also include those that developing countries have said will not happen without more financial and technical support.
Achieving the pledges needed for the 2C limit was a "historic milestone" and good news, the scientists said. However, they said the bad news was that the cuts in global emissions currently planned by 2030 were way off track to keep the peak below 1.5C. That is the global goal, but currently there is less than a 10% chance of hitting that target.
People across the planet are already facing intensifying heatwaves, floods and storms with the 1.2 C of heating caused by humanity's emissions to date, and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) warned in 2018 of far worse if heating continues above 1.5C.
The 2C limit being within reach was "big news", said Christophe McGlade at the International Energy Agency, a member of the team behind the new analysis. "It's the first time that governments have come forward with specific targets that can hold global warming to below the symbolic 2C level."
"These results are clearly a cause for optimism," he added. "We've come a long way since the Paris agreement was signed back in 2015. But now the real work has to start. The pledges have not yet been backed up by the strong and credible near-term policies needed to make them a reality."
Prof Malte Meinshausen, at the University of Melbourne, Australia, another team member, said having the 2C limit in sight was a "historic milestone".
But he said: "Our study also clearly shows that increased action this decade is necessary. Otherwise, we're going to blast through the remaining carbon budget for 1.5C." A major IPCC report earlier in April said global emissions must peak and start to fall within 30 months to keep the 1.5C target alive.
The new analysis, published in the journal Nature, is the first peer-reviewed study to assess the peak temperature rise that would result from countries fulfilling their pledges. It used two independent modelling approaches, one of which assessed more than 1,400 different scenarios and included recent pledges on shipping and aviation emissions.
By the end of Cop26, 153 nations had submitted new climate pledges to the UN, with countries responsible for 75% of global greenhouse gas emissions committing to reach net zero between 2050 and 2070. These have made the 2C limit a possibility, though the scientists warned that uncertainties about how the planet responds to rising emissions meant there remained a 5% chance of a temperature above 2.8C.
The climate policies actually in place today would mean a peak of about 2.6C, leading to "massive climate damages around the world", said McGlade. The commitments made by countries so far up to 2030 only cut that peak to 2.4C. The IPCC has said that limiting heating to 1.5C requires reducing CO2 emissions by 45% by 2030 compared with 2010.
But emissions were on track to rise by 7-15% by 2030, a "sobering assessment", the scientists said, with any delay in action putting 1.5C "out of reach". If the world does overshoot this target, then ensuring a "livable future" would rely on a massive rollout of technology that can suck CO2 from the air, as well as large-scale reforestation.
The new research gave a much clearer picture of our likely climate future, said Frances Moore, at the University of California, and Zeke Hausfather, the climate research lead at Stripe, in a commentary in Nature. They said it showed the goal of ratcheting up the initial climate pledges made in 2015 in Paris had been "partially realised".
"But optimism should be curbed until promises to reduce emissions in the future are backed up with stronger short-term action," they said. "It is easy to set ambitious climate targets for 30, 40 or even 50 years in the future, but it is much harder to enact the policies [needed] today."
Moore and Hausfather also warned of the danger of geopolitical tensions, including Russia's war in Ukraine: "It would be a mistake to rule out a future characterised by resurgent nationalism that strains global cooperation and leads to increasing reliance on domestic fossil-fuel resources and a corresponding rise in emissions."
"Policymakers are standing at a crossroads," said McGlade. "We can choose to lock in emissions and deepen the energy crisis. Or we can use this moment to take an honest step towards a cleaner, safer future."
McGlade said there were many policies that could make immediate or near-term impacts on the energy and climate crises, including reducing speed limits on roads, accelerating the rollout of renewable energy and electric vehicles, and stopping the venting of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, from oil and gas production facilities and putting it into supply instead.
#263
British households will each miss out on up to £4,400 over the next two years because the UK does not have a nationalised energy generation company, the Trades Union Congress has said.
The UK's main trade union body is calling on the government to set up a "public energy champion" that could own low-carbon energy projects from wind and solar to tidal and nuclear power.
In a new analysis seen by the Guardian, the TUC estimates that the government could use excess profits made by this public company to cut bills and insulate homes, improving their energy efficiency.
The TUC argues that if the UK had a state-backed energy generation company akin to France's EDF, EnBW in Germany or Sweden's Vattenfall, it would receive between £63bn and £122bn in revenues over the next two years. That is equivalent to between £2,250 and £4,400 a household.
The government has attempted to retrospectively take a cut from the unexpected gains made by energy producers this year. In May the then chancellor, Rishi Sunak, introduced a windfall tax on North Sea oil and gas producers.
However, Liz Truss has resisted calls for a similar levy on low-carbon electricity generators, which have benefited from the surge in the price of gas. Instead, her government is attempting to negotiate new contracts with operators.
The TUC study argues that having a fully privatised energy generation market has left Britons with higher bills and created a dependence on foreign technology, investment and skills.
Its general secretary, Frances O'Grady, said: "Privatisation has led to higher bills and colder homes. We need a fairer, greener approach that stops energy companies using UK families like cash machines.
"French, Swedish and German families benefit from public ownership of electricity - why shouldn't we? If we set up our own UK public energy champion, we can have lower bills, free home improvements to reduce our energy needs, and a safer climate for future generations."
The TUC research argues that public ownership of generation firms has allowed European nations to keep down prices, reinvest in communities and deliver on industrial strategy. However, critics may point to the nearly €10bn sum the French government has had to pay to fully nationalise debt-laden EDF.
The study builds on a TUC proposal announced in July to nationalise five of the biggest energy companies to bring down bills. It estimated it would cost £2.85bn to nationalise the big five supply firms - British Gas, E.ON, EDF, Scottish Power and Ovo. Some forecasts estimate the government could spend more than £4bn bailing out Bulb, which collapsed last year.

The TUC proposals were backed by the Green party. The party's co-leader Adrian Ramsay said: "It's important there's more government ownership across all parts of the energy market so that we can ensure a rapid transition from fossil fuels to renewables and secure our energy needs for the future.
"We do also need to support a diverse range of ownership models for energy generators and suppliers including local community, cooperatives and municipal that are close to the people they serve and can innovate."
#264
Octopus Energy is taking on 580,000 customers left stranded when Avro Energy ceased trading last week, and is at the centre of speculation that it could bid for another player, Bulb Energy.
As the UK gas crisis continued to wreak havoc on the sector, the regulator, Ofgem, appointed Octopus to take over supplying Avro Energy's customers following what was described as a competitive process "to get the best deal possible".
Octopus had 2.5 million customers before the announcement, and Sunday's move takes this to about 3.1 million. In a message to the new arrivals, the company said: "We have a strong track record in large customer migrations and would like to reassure customers that there will be no interruption or impact to their energy supply."
The collapse last week of Avro Energy and another firm, Green, which had more than 250,000 customers, brings the number of suppliers that have buckled under the pressure of record gas market prices to seven in just over six weeks, affecting 1.5m households.
Ofgem said the switchover from Avro to Octopus would take effect immediately, and that while this news "may be unsettling", customers did not need to worry. Outstanding credit balances, including money owed to current and former Avro users, would be honoured.
Octopus will take on Avro's customers through Ofgem's supplier of last resort (SoLR) process.
Gillian Cooper, head of energy policy for Citizens Advice, said Octopus must continue to protect vulnerable Avro customers once they transfer supplier.

"Anyone struggling to pay their bills must be supported, and Octopus Energy must make sure that any debt repayment plans Avro Energy customers may have been on before are continued," said Cooper. "It's important they continue to provide the warm home discount to all customers who previously received it from Avro Energy. It's up to the government and Ofgem to work with suppliers to ensure this happens."
Octopus has been named in reports as one of the suppliers that could consider bidding for a rival challenger brand, Bulb. Bulb, which has 1.7 million customers and made a £63m loss in the year to 31 March 2020, is currently hunting for fresh investment to fund the company.
Both Octopus and Bulb say that they provide their customers with 100% renewable electricity from solar, wind and hydro. Any tie-up between the two would create a large supplier with almost 5 million customers that could pose a stronger competitive threat to the giants of the energy sector.
Bulb's financial advisers at Lazard have set up a data room to provide potential backers with documents and key information so they can review its finances.
A senior City source said Bulb had been looking to raise funds for some time and there was no reason to believe the company was facing an imminent threat to its survival or seeking a bailout. However, the current turmoil, with predictions of a difficult winter ahead, may mean that it struggles to find new backers.
Octopus entered the market in 2016 and claims to have been picking up 50,000 customers a month. It has been highly critical of the big players that dominate the sector, saying: "The energy industry in Britain is ruled by a handful of complacent dinosaurs peddling fossil fuels, pricing trickery and poor customer service."
Bulb, meanwhile, says it provides 100% renewable electricity to homes in the UK, France, Spain and Texas in the US, and 100% carbon-neutral gas in the UK.
Talk of a possible bid from Octopus was first reported by Sky News.
There are fears that millions of households could lose their energy supplier by the end of the winter - providing a growth opportunity for the incumbent supply giants after years of losing customers to smaller challenger brands.
A Bulb spokesperson declined to comment on the speculation, saying: "From time to time we explore various opportunities to fund our business plans and further our mission to lower bills and lower CO2. Like everyone in the industry, we're monitoring wholesale prices and their impact on our business."
Asked about Bulb, Octopus said it did not comment on merger and acquisition rumours or speculation.
#265

Gas prices surged on Monday and the pound and euro slumped after Russia shut down a big pipeline indefinitely.
Russia has used its control of gas supplies to exert pressure on European countries in retaliation against sanctions imposed after its invasion of Ukraine. Gazprom, the Russian state-controlled gas company, closed the Nord Stream 1 pipeline from Russia to Germany on Friday, saying it had found a leak requiring repair.
The threatened cuts to supplies of gas from Russia have prompted a scramble by European countries to store as much gas as possible before winter, as well as efforts to find alternative supplies.
However, the prospect of Russia cutting off an important pipeline completely caused prices to rise on Monday, as investors braced for severe shortages. The contract for gas delivery next month in the UK soared by 35% at one stage, and was about 12% higher in afternoon trading at 465p a therm. That was an increase from the 410p a therm cost on Friday afternoon, and approaching the five-month high of nearly 650p set last month.
Winter gas prices were also up sharply. The wholesale UK gas contract for November and December both jumped about 15%, near to last month's record highs.
The benchmark Dutch TTF October gas contract rose by up to 30%, up €62 to €272 a megawatt hour.
The threat of gas shortages has also deepened concerns over recession risks in economies dependent on the fuel for industry and electricity generation, including the UK and the EU. That has caused their currencies to weaken as investors seek safety in the US dollar and reduce exposure to an economy that may have to cut back industrial production meaningfully.
The euro hit a 20-year low against the US dollar, falling as low as $0.9879 in early trading on Monday.
On the day that Liz Truss was confirmed as the UK's next prime minister, the pound hit $1.1444, its lowest value against the dollar since the early days of Covid-19 in March 2020. Truss is expected to reveal her plans to mitigate the energy crisis in the coming days.
European stock market indices also dropped. Germany's Dax lost about 2% with France's CAC down more than 1%.
Kit Juckes, a macro strategist at the Société Générale bank, said: "It's unclear how long the pipeline will remain shut, but it is still obvious that President Putin is using it as a weapon to weaken European resolve in supporting Ukraine."
Lee Hardman, a currency analyst at MUFG Bank, said: "Russia's ongoing weaponisation of energy supplies continues to increase downside risks for European economies and the euro."
Oil prices also jumped after Opec, the cartel of oil-producing countries, and allies including Russia agreed to cut production by 100,000 barrels a day in October.
The price of Brent crude oil futures, the global benchmark, rose by 3% to more than $95.78 a barrel, up from $93. West Texas Intermediate, the North American measure, gained almost 3% to hit $89.37 a barrel.
Leaders of the G7 countries - the UK, US, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada - agreed a plan on Friday to cap the prices paid for Russian oil to prevent sales from enriching the Kremlin, although it is unclear if the cap will result in lower prices.
#266
In the first two days of January, the average Briton was already responsible for more carbon dioxide emissions than someone from the Democratic Republic of the Congo would produce in an entire year, according to analysis by the Center for Global Development (CGD).
The study, which highlights the "vast energy inequality" between rich and poor countries, found that each Briton produces 200 times the climate emissions of the average Congolese person, with people in the US producing 585 times as much. By the end of January, the carbon emitted by someone living in the UK will surpass the annual emissions of citizens of 30 low- and middle-income countries, it found.
Euan Ritchie, a policy analyst at CGD Europe, said his work was prompted by the "climate hypocrisy" of western countries, including the UK and the US, that have pledged to stop aid funding to fossil fuel projects in developing states.
"At Cop26 there was lots of hand-wringing by rich countries about the extent to which aid and other development finance should finance fossil fuels in poorer countries," said Ritchie. "The hypocrisy of this caught my attention."
"Our analysis shows that in just a few days, the average person in the UK produces more climate emissions than people in many low-income countries do in an entire year. It would be a cruel irony if the countries that have least contributed to this problem won't be able to have access to energy infrastructure."
Several countries, including some developing countries, and finance institutions have signed up to a pledge to end public support for international fossil fuel projects. The same countries will be able to continue to develop fossil fuels at home. The US has at least 24 pending fossil fuel projects representing more than 1.6 gigatons of potential greenhouse gas emissions, while the UK is licensing new oil and gas fields in the North Sea.
The CGD research used World Bank data of per capita carbon emissions for each country, spread out over a year, to calculate the point at which a British or US citizen's energy use surpassed that of someone living in a low- or middle-income country. About 940 million people, mainly in sub-Saharan Africa, do not have access to electricity.
African leaders, including President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria, who has committed Nigeria to net zero by 2060, and Lazarus Chakwera, the president of Malawi, have spoken out about their countries' need to transition to net zero via natural gas.
The Energy for Growth Hub, an international research network, estimates that if 48 countries in Africa, excluding South Africa and several north African nations, tripled their electricity consumption through use of natural gas, the resulting carbon emissions would be less than 1% of the global total.
Vijaya Ramachandran, the director for energy and development at the Breakthrough Institute in Berkeley, California, argues that blanket bans on fossil fuel projects in poor countries are "colonial" and will entrench poverty while doing little to reduce the world's carbon emissions.
"It's very easy for rich countries to impose fossil fuel financing bans on poor countries, while at the same time increasing their own consumption of fossil fuels," she said. "It's rank hypocrisy and it's devastating for poor countries as they need a wide range of energy to fuel development.
"It's well known renewable energy is intermittent and needs to be backed up by other sources. Telling African countries they just need solar is completely hypocritical and colonial."
Rose M Mutiso, the research director of Energy for Growth Hub, said the CGD research should be used to inform the debate over responsibility for the climate crisis.
"Solving the climate crisis in the medium term is the responsibility of high emitting countries, not only because they caused the problem but logically, it's where high emissions are concentrated," said Mutiso, who is Kenyan.
"The video gaming industry in California is using more energy than entire African countries," she said. "There's this idea that in California we can't live without video games, or air conditioning, but we are worried about Africans moving up and consuming. It's really important for us as Africans to establish that our development is non-negotiable. All of those decades of exploitation and being left behind - that is owed to us."
Mutiso cited a 2019 study that estimated electricity demand from gaming in California alone would grow from 5 terawatt hours (TWh) in 2011 to as much as 11TWh by 2021, the same as Sri Lanka's entire consumption.
#267
National Grid plans to reduce the risk of blackouts this winter by paying consumers to use less electricity at peak times, it has emerged.
The electricity network operator is racing to set up a scheme that will enable households with smart meters to choose to cut how much energy they use when supplies are low.
Initial proposals drawn up by National Grid's electricity system operator (ESO) say that households could be paid up to £6 a kilowatt hour in credit instead of paying out 28.34p a kilowatt hour, The Times reported.
The move comes as the government looks for ways to secure extra energy supplies this winter and limit usage by consumers.
The business secretary, Kwasi Kwarteng, hopes to broker further deals to extend the life of Britain's last remaining coal-fired power stations through the winter, after keeping West Burton A in Nottinghamshire in operation.
Russia's invasion of Ukraine has put further strain on already stretched energy supplies. Ministers are concerned that - in a worst-case scenario - Britain could experience rolling blackouts this winter.
National Grid's plans could offer a cheaper and greener alternative to fossil fuels and cut bills for consumers.
Annual bills in the UK have rocketed to £1,971 a year and are expected to top £2,800 a year in October, before hitting £3,000 in January.
National Grid's proposals follow a trial in conjunction with Octopus Energy. In the pilot about 100,000 customers were given a day's notice to cut their consumption during peak times such as 4.30pm to 6.30pm, when demand is highest in the UK.
Octopus said that the average household saved 23p in each two-hour period, with some consumers saving as much as £4.35.
Sources close to the scheme said consumers had regularly followed the advice to cut their usage during the suggested periods. There had been concerns that National Grid would not be able to rely on consumers taking up the offer.
National Grid has asked other suppliers to assess how much customers could cut back on their usage at peak times.
It is also hoped that the initiative might encourage households to obtain smart meters after their faltering rollout over the past decade.
The scheme would be paid for by a levy on household bills. However, the cost to pay power plants to maintain or increase supplies is thought to be greater.
An ESO spokesperson said: "Demand shifting has the potential to save consumers money, reduce carbon emissions and offer greater flexibility on the system, and some forms of demand management are already used today to help balance the system.
"Innovation that drives consumers' value and reduces carbon emissions will always be deployed as swiftly as possible, in a tested, safe and reliable way."
Greg Jackson, the chief executive of Octopus Energy, said: "National Grid has traditionally paid diesel generators huge sums at times of high demand - or paid big companies to turn down their usage.
"Opening this up to households who want to do so means that it won't just be big companies who benefit. And the more of this flexibility we have on the grid, the cheaper power will be for everyone - not just those who participate."
#268

Jacob Rees-Mogg has taken on responsibility for energy after Liz Truss had struggled to find a dedicated minister to fill the role amid concerns over his scepticism.
Two Conservative MPs are understood to have turned down the role of climate change minister earlier in the day. However, late on Tuesday night No 10 announced that Graham Stuart would take the brief and be attending cabinet, prompting speculation that Downing Street had succumbed to concerns of green Tories about giving the role to Rees-Mogg as originally planned.
The Cop26 chair Alok Sharma has also been reappointed to the role.
Chris Skidmore, the former energy minister, was approached twice by the Truss team about reprising the role. However, he rebuffed them as, unlike last time, the job would not allow him to attend cabinet. It is understood he had no problem in working with Rees-Mogg but wanted to continue promoting net zero. He also has a fellowship at Harvard.
Green Tories admitted concerns that Rees-Mogg's expanded brief signals that Truss, who has supported scrapping green levies and bringing back fracking, will not regard the climate breakdown as an emergency and therefore not treat it as a priority.
The Green party MP for Brighton Pavilion, Caroline Lucas, tweeted: "After three years with a reckless self-advancing PM, Liz Truss reportedly plans to lead us through biggest energy crisis in decades by making Jacob Rees-Mogg - known for snide notes to civil servants, horizontal slouching in Commons & devotion to fossil fuels - our energy secretary."
Rees-Mogg has claimed that "climate alarmism" is responsible for high energy prices and that it is unrealistic for scientists to project future changes to the climate because meteorologists struggle to correctly predict the weather.
The new business secretary said in April that the government wanted "every last drop" of oil and gas to be extracted from the North Sea as he dismissed warnings that a renewed push for fossil fuels would ruin the UK's chances of achieving net zero by 2050.
The cabinet minister also described the idea of reopening shale gas sites as "quite an interesting opportunity", comparing the fracking threat to "a rock fall in a disused coalmine".
Senior Tories admitted they were worried about Rees-Mogg's appointment, with one former minister saying it was "not very encouraging" but that they hoped he would stick to Johnson's commitment to reach net zero emissions by 2050.
One Tory MP suggested it was a "slim hope" that the new business secretary would recognise that tackling climate change was "an opportunity, not a cost".
A former No 10 adviser said: "I always think it's better with the devil you know with Tory MPs and we might just be about to find out. Unfortunately, the climate is now what's at stake. Jacob would be so bad for the environment it breaks my heart."
Allies of Rees Mogg dismissed the concerns of Tory MPs suggesting they were misplaced as the senior Tory had committed to the net zero target by 2050.
There were also indications that Truss's new No 10 could play down tackling the climate crisis as a priority with Matthew Sinclair, her new chief economic adviser, having a history of arguing against taxation to pay for environmental policies.
Sinclair is the author of a book called Let Them Eat Carbon, which challenges whether policies to address climate change are worth the cost to living standards, and papers including The Case Against Further Green Taxes.
A former chief executive of the Taxpayers' Alliance, a rightwing free market thinktank that does not disclose its funding, Sinclair has previously criticised the UK government for being "enthusiastic advocates for more ambitious targets and more draconian climate regulations", while arguing in favour of more mitigation or adaptation.
?269

In the tumult of negotiations over the most consequential climate legislation ever proposed in the US, there is growing scrutiny of the fossil fuel industry connections of the man poised to tear down the core of the bill - the West Virginia senator Joe Manchin.
Manchin, a centrist Democrat, has objected to key provisions of a multitrillion-dollar reconciliation bill that would slash planet-heating emissions and help the US, and the world, to avert catastrophic climate breakdown. In a finely balanced Senate, Democrats need all 50 of their senators to vote for the bill, with no Republicans willing to vote for the climate measures.
The legislation would steadily retire the coal industry that once formed the backbone of the West Virginia economy and continues to provide ample financial support to Manchin, who has spent the past four decades as a political heavyweight in his Appalachian home state, including acting as its secretary of state, governor and now US senator.
In the current electoral cycle, Manchin has received more in political donations from the oil and gas industry than any other senator, more than double the second largest recipient. He is also the No 1 beneficiary of donations from the coal mining sector, leads the way in money accepted from gas pipeline operators, and is sixth in the ranking of senatorial donations from electricity utilities.
This industry largesse has led to accusations that the senator has been unduly influenced by the companies that have helped stoke the climate crisis. Manchin's office did not respond to a request for comment.
But Manchin's ties to the fossil fuel industry run deeper than political donations. After initially working in his family's furniture and carpet business, Manchin set up a coal brokerage firm called Enersystems in 1988, running it until he became a full-time politician.
Despite handing control of Enersystems to his son Joseph, Manchin's links to the business have proved fruitful to the senator. His shares in Enersystems are worth between $1m and $5m, according to his latest financial disclosure document, with the senator receiving more than $5m in dividend income from the company over the past decade. The coal brokerage represents 71% of Manchin's investment income, and about a third of his total net worth.
The reconciliation bill contains a huge expansion in tax support for clean energy and electric vehicles and new curbs on methane, a potent greenhouse gas, but the core of the climate measures is something called a Clean Electricity Performance Program (CEPP). The $150bn scheme would use payments and penalties to spur utilities to phase out fossil fuels from the US electricity system over the coming decade.
The program, along with the clean energy tax credits, "are the best shot we've had in a generation to supercharge the clean energy transition and reduce fossil fuel pollution in marginalized communities", said Patrick Drupp, deputy legislative director of the Sierra Club.
Manchin has called the bill's spending "reckless" and said it "makes no sense" to pay utilities to increase their share of renewable energy when they are doing so already. This is despite the fact that barely any utilities across the US are adding solar, wind and other sources of clean energy at the rate envisioned by the bill to force emissions down quickly enough to stave off climate disaster.
"His statement on this is demonstrably false. Utilities aren't growing renewables that quickly, certainly not in West Virginia," said Robbie Orvis, senior director of energy policy design at Energy Innovation. "It's not a secret he has ties to the coal industry. One would hope anyone elected to Congress would not hold significant financial holdings in industries they would consider regulating, but that's the system we have, unfortunately."
Recent analysis by Energy Innovation found that the CEPP is the "carbon reduction lynchpin" of the legislation, representing around a third of the emissions cuts that would come from the bill. "It's really unfortunate that the CEPP is not on the table anymore," said Orvis. "But this bill would still result in a huge cut in greenhouse gas emissions, it does a lot. There may be a way to fill the gaps left by CEPP."
Joe Biden has set a goal for the US to cut its planet-heating emissions in half this decade, before zeroing them out by 2050. America is currently on track for a 17% to 25% cut in emissions by 2030, an analysis released on Tuesday by Rhodium Group found, leaving up to 2.3bn tons of emissions left to eliminate in order to meet the goal.
John Larsen, director of Rhodium Group, said that with further cuts from the federal government and states, "the US's ambitious 2030 climate target is within reach, even with a more limited policy package from Congress". But he added: "The US and the world have little time or room for error to avoid the worst impacts of climate change."
?270
Big oil and gas companies are spending tens of millions publicising their environmental work, while only about a 10th of their investment goes into low-carbon development, a report claims.
A comprehensive study of public communications from five oil and gas firms by InfluenceMap, a climate finance thinktank, found that 60% of the publicity made at least one claim highlighting the companies' positive climate actions. But on average, the five companies devoted only 12% of capital expenditure to low-carbon activities - and this included some gas projects.
Less than a quarter of the publicity material highlighted the companies' fossil fuel activities, InfluenceMap said, which suggested that the companies were spending about $750m a year on communications aimed at burnishing their climate credentials.
Researchers looked at 3,421 public communications materials published by BP, Chevron, ExxonMobil, Shell and TotalEnergies in 2021, including articles and blogposts on corporate websites, press releases, reports, speeches and company and CEO social media accounts.
The researchers did not look at adverts as it was not possible for them to obtain a full dataset of any company's global advertising
They found that 60% of the publicity material made at least one green claim, with the most popular being centred on efforts to "transition the energy mix". However, analysis of the capital expenditure of the five companies found that all were forecast to increase their oil and gas production, with the exception of BP, which was expected to have similar levels in 2026 as in 2021.
"Essentially, we found that big oil is spending millions of dollars on this green PR, and it is a really systematic campaign to portray themselves as pro-climate," said Faye Holder, programme manager at InfluenceMap. "But at the same time, they are still lobbying to lock in fossil fuels and investing in a really unsustainable energy future with high levels of oil and gas, and very low spend on low-carbon activities."
None of the "About us" pages on the firms' websites described them as oil and gas companies, Holder said. "The best instance, in my mind, was BP - on their 'Who we are' page, they only mention the word 'oil' twice. And it's at the bottom of the page, under a section called 'Our history', where they describe how they have always been a transitioning energy company, from coal to oil to gas to this lower-carbon future.
"So it's really clear they want to dissociate themselves from oil and gas, and attach themselves to this climate agenda."
Shell made the most green claims, with 70% of public communications stressing pro-environmental activities, while just 10% of capital expenditure was invested in low carbon, which included some gas projects, according to InfluenceMap's report. ExxonMobil made green claims in 70% of its communications, while devoting 8% of capital expenditure to low carbon. For TotalEnergies, 62% of communications made green claims, with 25% of capital investment going towards low carbon.
Shell contested the findings, saying InfluenceMap had failed to take into account low-carbon businesses included in its marketing division, including EV charging and low-carbon fuels, and a joint venture in Brazil that is a world-leading bioethanol producer. The company has previously said more than 35% of capital expenditure in 2022 would go towards low-carbon energy, as well as "non-energy products".
"We are already investing billions of dollars in lower-carbon energy," a spokesperson said. "To help alter the mix of energy Shell sells, we need to grow these new businesses rapidly. That means letting our customers know through advertising or social media what lower-carbon solutions we offer now or are developing, so they can switch when the time is right for them.
"The world will still need oil and gas for many years to come. Investment in them will ensure we can supply the energy people will still have to rely on, while lower-carbon alternatives are scaled up."
A spokeperson from TotalEnergies told the Guardian: "Our public announcements policy reflects the transformation of TotalEnergies in a multi-energy company.
"As an evidence of this, the InfluenceMap report releases a forecast that ranks TotalEnergies as the frontrunner among the supermajors in terms of renewables assets-based capacities."
A spokesperson for ExxonMobil said: "ExxonMobil continues to mitigate emissions from its operations and achieved its 2025 emission-reduction plans four years earlier than planned.
"This progress supports the company's more aggressive 2030 emission-reduction plans and its ambition to achieve net zero scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions from operated assets by 2050. ExxonMobil is investing more than $15bn between now and 2027 on lower-emission initiatives, and we anticipate a tripling of investment by 2025."
Chevron and BP did not respond to requests for comment.
?271

Wholesale gas prices hit new all-time highs on Wednesday, prompting warnings that factories could be forced to shut down over winter or switch to more polluting fuels just as the UK hosts the Cop26 climate conference next month.
The crisis has already forced a wave of collapses among energy suppliers that has led to warnings of "desperate choices" for households likely to face higher bills as a result.
As power-hungry sectors such as steel, glass and chemicals fight their own battle with soaring gas and electricity costs, they warned of further shocks to both industry and consumers, including higher prices of goods and factories being forced to temporarily close.
Growing concern about the domino effect of high energy prices came as the cost of gas for delivery the next day reached 350p per therm on Wednesday, while gas for delivery in November reached 407p, both new records. Prices fell back later, after Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, indicated that the country, the largest supplier of gas into Europe, was prepared to help ease the crisis.
But leading figures from energy-intensive industries said serious ramifications were already on the cards unless the government heeded their call for measures to reduce energy costs.
Trade body UK Steel said it was now "uneconomic" to make steel at certain times in the UK, with British firms facing double the electricity prices paid by rivals in Germany, France and the Netherlands. British Steel, based in Scunthorpe, has begun adding surcharges of up to £30 a tonne to its products to recoup higher energy costs, increasing costs for customers in the construction and automotive sectors.
David Bailey, a professor of business economics at Birmingham Business School, said consumers could end up feeling the pinch if steel remained expensive. "They'll pass it on to consumers ultimately, so it could increase the price of cars," he said.
Network Rail, which owns Britain's 20,000 miles of railway and buys about 97% of its track from British Steel, said it had yet to see an increase in prices.
With just weeks to go until the UK hosts the Cop26 global climate conference, leaders in the glass and minerals industries said high gas prices could ultimately lead to increased pollution.
Richard Stansfield, the chief executive of the lime manufacturer Singleton Birch, said the increased cost of production was being passed on to consumers, including water companies and firms that use the mineral to turn waste into energy.
"We could get into a ridiculous situation where it's cheaper to put waste into landfill than to put it into waste-to-energy plants," he said. "There are all sorts of knock-on effects."
Paul Pearcy, the federation coordinator at the trade body British Glass, said companies that make windows could be forced to revert to powering their furnaces with polluting fuels that had been abandoned.
"Some of our members still have heavy fuel oil on site, having moved over to gas," he said. "Some of them are seriously considering moving back to that because of the price of gas.
"As prices go the way they are, it becomes more and more financially attractive but with Cop26 around the corner, it's not a great advert."
Glass companies and steelmakers run their furnaces continuously, making it extremely difficult, time-consuming and costly to shut down.
Jon Flitney, of the British Ceramic Confederation, said the same was true of its members' kilns, meaning any decision to scale back operation would "not be taken lightly".
However, he said that if prices remain high, "the balance between income and operating costs may shift".
The glass, steel and minerals industries are all members of the Energy Intensive Users Group trade body, which warned of shutdowns in essential industries without help from the government and the energy regulator, Ofgem.
Richard Leese, the chairman of the group, said: "We have already seen the impact of the truly astronomical increases in energy costs on production in the fertiliser and steel sectors.
"Nobody wants to see a repeat in other industries this winter given that UK energy-intensive industries produce so many essential domestic and industrial products and are intrinsically linked with many supply chains."
The group has called for exemptions for energy-intensive industries from measures designed to help fund renewable energy and penalise carbon emissions.
Any slowdown in work schedules could place a further drag on the economy, adding to concern in sectors such as construction, where shortages of materials and staff drove growth expectations to an eight-month low, according to survey figures released on Wednesday.
Spiking gas prices have already taken their toll on British business, forcing fertiliser plants to shut down and capsizing 12 energy suppliers. A 13th, Omni Energy, warned its customers on Wednesday that it could cease trading in November.
The energy adviser Cornwall Insights said it expected the effect to drive up household energy bills into 2023, by driving the government-imposed cap on energy prices higher.
It expects the energy price cap, currently set at £1,277 for an average dual fuel customer paying by direct debit, to reach £1,659 for summer 2022 and £1,663 for next winter.
The business department said: "We are determined to secure a competitive future for our energy-intensive industries and in recent years have provided them with extensive support, including more than £2bn to help with the costs of energy and to protect jobs.
"Our exposure to volatile global gas prices underscores the importance of our plan to build a strong, home-grown renewable energy sector to further reduce our reliance on fossil fuels."
?272

Queensland will end its reliance on coal-fired power by 2035 under a 10-year $62bn energy plan to create a clean "super-grid" of solar, wind and hydroelectric power.
In a historic announcement for a state known for its coal mining, the premier, Annastacia Palaszczuk, said Queensland was facing a "climate emergency" and a bold vision was needed.
Palaszczuk said her government was committing an extra $4bn to transform the state's energy system and by 2030 there would be at least 2,000 more wind turbines and 35m more solar panels in the state.
By 2035, there would be eight times more renewable energy generation than today.
In a speech in Brisbane, she said: "It's about changing the game. Action on climate change. Action on our economy. Action we can all take part in and action we can all be proud of. Queensland - it's our time to shine."
Two new targets would also be legislated, Palaszczuk said. By 2032, 70% of the state's electricity would come from renewables, rising to 80% by 2035.
She revealed the state wanted to build the world's largest pumped hydro plant west of Mackay, with 5GW of round-the-clock storage, with a first stage to be completed by 2032.
Workers at the state's eight publicly-owned coal-fired power plants would be protected with a $150m "job security guarantee" to either keep working at those sites or find new careers.
Coal plants would be turned into clean energy hubs and, by 2035, the state would no longer rely on them for electricity. Projections showed coal providing no power at all after 2037.
Government and private investment of $62bn was estimated to be needed, with power generation being majority publicly-owned.
Household annual electricity costs would be $150 less under the plan, the government said.
The state's second preferred pumped hydro project, west of Mackay, would be known as the Pioneer-Burdekin.
Another pumped hydro plant, announced earlier this year, is being targeted for a site near Imbil west of the Sunshine Coast.
The deputy premier, Steven Miles, said the two plants combined would be bigger than the Snowy Mountains hydroelectric scheme.
"We will use cheap solar electricity during the day to pump water up the mountain to store it. Then at night we can release the water to generate electricity," Miles said.
"It's like a giant battery."
Palaszczuk also pointed to the state's hosting of the Olympics and Paralympics 2032, saying Queensland would deliver "climate positive" games.
Queensland energy and renewables minister, Mick de Brenni, told the Guardian the state's move away from coal marked a historic moment.
"This is an incredibly significant day in our nation's history," he said.
"Today Queensland commences the transition in an orderly way so that there's no reliance by 2035 [on coal]."
The plan's release comes only days after the premier announced the state was investing $776m to build the country's biggest publicly-owned windfarm in the state's west.
Studies previously questioned whether Queensland was on track to meet its initial target of 50% renewables by 2030 - as the pace of private investment stalled, and the government showed a lack of appetite to hasten coal closures.
Maggie Mckeown, of the Queensland Conservation Council, said the announcement was "a major turning point for the government" but the plan could be stronger with earlier investment in batteries.
"Six gigawatts by 2035 is a great start," Mckeown said.
Kane Thornton, the chief executive of the renewable industry's Clean Energy Council, said the plan would "set Queensland up to be a world leader on clean energy."
Half of the state's eight coal power stations are less than 20 years old and almost entirely publicly-owned. The state gets 65% of its electricity from coal, 14% from gas, 18% from solar and wind and 1.5% from hydro power.
Action on emissions in Queensland would be significant nationally, but Palaszczuk made no new commitments on a state-wide target.
Queensland has the highest emissions of any state, but its 2030 emissions reduction target of 30% based on 2005 levels is also the weakest behind the 50% goals of New South Wales and Victoria.
?273
The climate crisis has reached a "really bleak moment", one of the world's leading climate scientists has said, after a slew of major reports laid bare how close the planet is to catastrophe.
Collective action is needed by the world's nations more now than at any point since the second world war to avoid climate tipping points, Prof Johan Rockström said, but geopolitical tensions are at a high.
He said the world was coming "very, very close to irreversible changes ... time is really running out very, very fast".
Emissions must fall by about half by 2030 to meet the internationally agreed target of 1.5C of heating but are still rising, the reports showed - at a time when oil giants are making astronomical amounts of money.
On Thursday, Shell and TotalEnergies both doubled their quarterly profits to about $10bn. Oil and gas giants have enjoyed soaring profits as post-Covid demand jumps and after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The sector is expected to amass $4tn in 2022, strengthening calls for heavy windfall taxes to address the cost of living crisis and fund the clean energy transition.
All three of the key UN agencies have produced damning reports in the last two days. The UN environment agency's report found there was "no credible pathway to 1.5C in place" and that "woefully inadequate" progress on cutting carbon emissions means the only way to limit the worst impacts of the climate crisis is a "rapid transformation of societies".
Current pledges for action by 2030, even if delivered in full, would mean a rise in global heating of about 2.5C, a level that would condemn the world to catastrophic climate breakdown, according to the UN's climate agency. Only a handful of countries have ramped up their plans in the last year, despite having promised to do so at the Cop26 UN climate summit in Glasgow last November.
The UN's meteorological agency reported that all the main heating gases hit record highs in 2021, with an alarming surge in emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
Separately, the IEA's world energy report offered a glimmer of progress, that CO2 from fossil fuels could peak by 2025 as high energy prices push nations towards clean energy, though it warned that it would not be enough to avoid severe climate impacts.
Rockström, director of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany, said: "It's a really bleak moment, not only because of the reports showing that emissions are still rising, so we're not delivering on either the Paris or Glasgow climate agreements, but we also have so much scientific evidence that we are very, very close to irreversible changes - we're coming closer to tipping points."
Research by Rockström and colleagues, published in September, found five dangerous climate tipping points may already have been passed due to the global heating caused by humanity to date, including the collapse of Greenland's ice cap, with another five possible with 1.5C of heating.
"Furthermore, the world is unfortunately in a geopolitically unstable state," said Rockström. "So when we need collective action at the global level, probably more than ever since the second world war, to keep the planet stable, we have an all-time low in terms of our ability to collectively act together."
"Time is really running out very, very fast," he said. "I must say, in my professional life as a climate scientist, this is a low point. The window for 1.5C is shutting as I speak, so it's really tough."
His remarks came after the UN secretary general, António Guterres, said on Wednesday that climate action was "falling pitifully short". "We are headed for a global catastrophe [and] for economy-destroying levels of global heating."
He added: "Droughts, floods, storms and wildfires are devastating lives and livelihoods across the globe [and] getting worse by the day. We need climate action on all fronts and we need it now." He said the G20 nations, responsible for 80% of emissions, must lead the way.
Inger Andersen, head of the UN environment programme (UNEP), told the Guardian that the energy crisis must be used to speed up delivery of a low-carbon economy: "We are in danger of missing the opportunity and a crisis is a terrible thing to waste."
Prof Corinne Le Quéré, at the University of East Anglia, UK, said: "It is fundamental to avoid cascading risks that responses to existing crises are made in a way that limits climate change to the lowest possible level."
Further reports published in the last two days said the health of the world's people is at the mercy of a global addiction to fossil fuels, with increasing heat deaths, hunger and infectious disease as the climate crisis intensifies.
In the UK, the government was accused of a "severe dereliction of duty" in leaving critical UK infrastructure at risk to climate impacts. The new prime minister, Rishi Sunak, will not attend COP27, his spokesman said on Wednesday.
High gas and oil prices delivered huge profits to Shell and TotalEnergies on Wednesday, which booked $9.5bn and $9.9bn respectively. Shell said it would not pay any UK-imposed windfall tax this year as the profits were being offset against investment in North Sea fields.
The fossil fuel industry as a whole amassed $4tn in 2022, according to another new report from International Energy Agency (IEA), a sum that could otherwise transform climate action.
The IEA report said: "Net income for the world's oil and gas producers is set to double in 2022 to an unprecedented $4tn, a huge $2tn windfall." The oil and gas sector has gained an average of $1tn a year in unearned profits for the last 50 years.
The IEA said clean energy investment would have to be at least $4tn a year by 2030 to hit net zero emissions by mid-century. "If the global oil and gas industry were to invest this [$2tn] additional income in low-emissions fuels, such as hydrogen and biofuels, it would fund all of the investment needed in these fuels for the remainder of this decade."
Prof Myles Allen, at the University of Oxford, said: "The combined profits, taxes and royalties generated by the oil and gas industry over the past few months would be enough to capture every single molecule of CO2 produced by their activities and reinject it back underground. So why are we only talking about transforming society and not about obliging a highly profitable industry to clean up the mess caused by the products it sells?"
"The situation is serious and bleak," said Prof Simon Lewis, at University College London. "Shell has made £26bn profit this year, carbon emissions are back at pre-pandemic levels, while 53,000 people died of heat stress in Europe in the summer, and floods have displaced millions from Nigeria to Pakistan. The solution is to do everything we can to defeat the fossil fuel industry - they stand between us all and a prosperous future."
Rockström was pessimistic about any breakthrough in the speed of climate action at the Cop27 climate summit, which he said would be dominated by nations such as Pakistan demanding funding to rebuild their countries after climate disasters. Rich, high-emitting nations have long rejected such claims, fearing unlimited liabilities.
"This is a necessary discussion," Rockström said. "But it leads to a deeper rift between the global north and the south. And that's exactly what we do not need now."
'Like something you watch in a movie': climate crisis intensifies with catastrophic floods - video
But he said progress could be made within a few years: "The Ukraine war is the nail in the coffin for the fossil-fuel-driven advanced economies. In the short term, it costs us a lot and we lose speed on climate action." But in the longer term, he said, the energy and food crises add national security to the planetary and health reasons for climate action.
Prof Michael Mann, at the University of Pennsylvania in the US, said it was important to note that progress was being made: "More work clearly needs to be done if warming is to be kept below 1.5C, but nobody foresaw the major policy progress in recent months in both Australia and the US. It is estimated that the US legislation will lower national emissions by 40% this decade. With US leadership, we can expect other major emitters to now come to the table at Cop27."
Climate experts agree that every action that limits global heating reduces the suffering endured by people from climate impacts. "The 1.5C target is now near impossible, but every fraction of a degree will equate to massive avoided damages for generations to come," said Prof Dave Reay, at the University of Edinburgh, UK.
Röckstrom said: "Despite the fact that the situation is depressing and very challenging, I would strongly advise everyone to act in business or policy or society or science. The deeper we fall into the dark abyss of risk, the more we have to make efforts to climb out of that hole. It's not as if we don't know what to do - it's rather that we're not doing what is necessary."
#274

More than 30,000 jobs would be put at risk if the government were to scrap the energy bill levy that pays for home insulation improvements for poor households, the industry has warned.
Ministers are mooting an end to the Energy Company Obligation (ECO), a £1bn levy on energy bills that pays for energy efficiency measures for people on low incomes. The energy price cap is expected to rise by about £700 to £2,000 for the average household bill in April, after a surge in gas prices.
The government is reluctant to take major steps such as windfall tax, which the Labour party and others have called for, and the longstanding ECO has been targeted by the Treasury as a way of reducing bills. However, the amounts saved from scrapping it would be small, at about £29 on the average bill.
The Insulation Assurance Authority has written to ministers urging them to keep ECO. The body said the levy added less than 52p a week to the average energy bill but had reduced household energy bills by about £300 a year on average for the 3m homes treated so far.
Nigel Donohue, chief executive of the industry body, said: "ECO has been the backbone in supporting those hit hardest by fuel poverty. We need a long-term solution to end our dependence upon high cost gas and that means we must ramp up energy efficiency investment. Cutting or just suspending ECO would be utterly self-defeating, lead to mass redundancies in the industry and harm the most vulnerable. ECO must be saved."
He warned that any move to abandon or suspend the measure would be disastrous for jobs. The insulation industry has suffered from government policy reversals over the last decade, when plans for a nationwide "green deal" insulation scheme were first trumpeted from 2010 then abruptly squashed in 2015. That left the ECO as the only remaining insulation programme, until the "green homes grant" was launched in 2020 then scrapped last spring after six months of maladministration.
Experts have said this "stop-start" pattern to government intervention in the market has led to a severe lack of investment, training and skills in insulation, which is proving problematic as the UK has the leakiest homes in Europe.
Previous moves to slash the ECO in the face of high energy prices led to the number of jobs in insulation falling by about half, the IAA said.
#275
Hydrogen produced by fossil fuels is more expensive, will release more greenhouse gas emissions and comes with a greater risk of creating stranded assets, according to new research from the Australian National University.
In the paper, published in the peer-reviewed engineering journal Applied Energy, researchers compared the emissions and financial cost of producing hydrogen using fossil fuels or renewable energy.
"Blue hydrogen" is produced using natural gas while "green hydrogen" is made by running an electric current through water using an electrolyser powered by renewable energy such as wind or solar.

"Clean hydrogen" is the term used for when carbon capture and storage is used to capture carbon dioxide emissions during the production process, similar to proposals for "clean coal".
Hydrogen has become central to the Australian government's current proposal to reach net zero, and blue hydrogen was endorsed by Australia's former chief scientist Dr Alan Finkel as a way to build industrial capability.
But the ANU researchers found emissions from hydrogen made from fossil fuels would still be "substantial".
Researchers found current emissions estimates of CCS fail to account for fugitive emissions such as methane - a potent greenhouse gas that leaks into the atmosphere during the extraction of natural gas.
These emissions are not caught by CCS and because creating hydrogen from natural gas is not totally efficient - it takes more gas to make hydrogen for energy than it would to simply burn the gas - methane emissions will continue to grow with the rate of extraction.
As the rate of extraction grows to supply export markets, so will these emissions.
The researchers also found the financial cost of creating blue hydrogen using CCS becomes more expensive as a plant gets closer to capturing 90% of emissions. This is because it becomes harder to capture CO2 as concentrations begin to fall.
Dr Fiona Beck, a co-author of the report and an engineer with the ANU Institute for Climate, Energy and Disaster Solutions, said CCS requires an expensive "bespoke solution for every plant" which adds to the risk these projects may become stranded assets.
"Green hydrogen is more expensive right now but it has the capacity to very quickly reduce in cost," Beck said. "Unless we have some form of incentive for people to apply CCS, it's never going to make sense to make blue hydrogen."
"It does beg the question who's going to invest in blue hydrogen?"
With high capture rates the researchers put the cost of producing blue hydrogen at $2.87 (US$2.09) a kilogram per tonne of CO2, while the cost of producing green hydrogen is $4.99 (US$3.64) with projections that it may come down to $2.55 (US$1.86).
As the technology to create blue hydrogen has already been around for some time, it's unlikely there will be a significant technological advance that would drive down price, as has happened with the production of solar panels.
A CSIRO database tracking new hydrogen projects that have been announced or are under development records at least 65 new green hydrogen projects in Australia, compared to just three trying to create hydrogen from fossil fuels and CCS.
The ANU research report is supported by other worldwide studies such as one published in September by researchers working for French energy giant Engie who found that it was already possible to produce green hydrogen for similar prices to blue hydrogen.
That study found the cost of producing hydrogen from fossil fuels was between $1.34 and $2.40 a kilogram per tonne of CO2, while it was already possible in some operations to produce hydrogen made from solar power at $2.36 a kilogram.
Scott Hamilton, a senior adviser to the Smart Energy Council and Hydrogen Australia, said the industry is a "long, long way" from achieving these costs across the board but it was up to the Australian government to actively support the develop of green hydrogen.
"The Australian government needs to do more than have hopes and prayers and magical thinking in their modelling," Hamilton said. "They need proper targets, proper policy actions to bring these emerging technologies to market, as they did with wind and solar 20 years ago."
Hamilton said the government was currently under-pricing blue hydrogen in its net zero modelling by assuming the price of hydrogen produced with fossil fuels to be $1.80 a kilogram, with hydrogen produced through renewable energy only becoming cost-competitive in 2030 - despite the price of natural gas growing steadily since 2015.
Dr Madeline Taylor, a senior lecturer at Macquarie University's school of law and a climate councillor at the Climate Council of Australia, said the ANU research "confirmed the business case, the commercial viability case and the policy case" for green hydrogen.
"There's a lot of money to be made but there's also a lot of risk if we don't do it right. If we don't invest in the right technologies or send the right signals," Taylor said.
"If we don't think carefully, we could be left with stranded assets. We could be left producing a product the world doesn't want. We could be left with infrastructure that is going to fall upon the taxpayer to dismantle."
#276
Criticism in the US of the oil industry's obfuscation over the climate crisis is intensifying after internal documents showed companies attempted to distance themselves from agreed climate goals, admitted "gaslighting" the public over purported efforts to go green, and even wished critical activists be infested by bedbugs.
The communications were unveiled as part of a congressional hearing held in Washington DC, where an investigation into the role of fossil fuels in driving the climate crisis produced documents obtained from the oil giants ExxonMobil, Chevron, Shell and BP.
"First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they wish bedbugs on you, then you win," said Varshini Prakash, executive director of Sunrise. The organization accused Shell of a "legacy of violence and of ignoring the wellbeing of communities across the globe".


The revelations are part of the third hearing held by the House committee on oversight and reform on how the fossil-fuel industry sought to hamper the effort to address the climate crisis. Democrats, who lead the committee, called top executives from the oil companies to testify last year, in which they denied they had misled the public.
The new documents are "the latest evidence that oil giants keep lying about their commitments to help solve the climate crisis and should never be trusted by policymakers", said Richard Wiles, president of the Center for Climate Integrity.
"If there is one thing consistent about the oil and gas majors' position on climate, it's their utter inability to tell the truth," Wiles added.
Ro Khanna, co-chair of the committee, said the new documents are "explosive" and show a "culture of intense disrespect" to climate activists. The oil giants' "climate pledges rely on unproven technology, accounting gimmicks and misleading language to hide the reality," he added. "Big oil executives are laughing at the people trying to protect our planet while they knowingly work to destroy it."
Several of the emails and memos within the released trove of documents appear to show executives, staffers and lobbyists internally contradicting public pronouncements by their companies to act on lowering planet-heating emissions.
Exxon, which recently announced profits of $17.9bn for the three months until June, more than three times what it earned in the same quarter a year ago, has publicly said it is "committed" to the Paris climate agreement to curb global heating.
However, the documents released by the Democratic-led House committee include an August 2019 memo by an executive to Darren Woods, Exxon's chief executive, on the need to "remove reference to Paris agreement" from an announcement by an industry lobby group that Exxon is a member of.
Such a statement "could create a potential commitment to advocate on the Paris agreement goals", the executive warned. A separate note on a 2018 Exxon presentation also admitted that biofuels derived from algae was still "decades away from the scale we need", despite the company long promoting it as a way to lower emissions.
Shell, meanwhile, has committed to becoming a "net zero" emissions business by 2050, and yet the documents show a private 2020 communication in which employees are urged to never "imply, suggest, or leave it open for possible misinterpretation that (net zero) is a Shell goal or target". Shell has "no immediate plans to move to a net-zero emissions portfolio" over the next 10 to 20 years, it added.
A Shell tweet posted in 2020 asking others what they could do to reduce emissions resulted in a torrent of ridicule from Twitter users. A communications executive for the company wrote privately that criticism that the tweet was "gaslighting" the public was "not totally without merit" and that the tweet was "pretty tone deaf". He added: "We are, after all, in a tweet like this implying others need to sacrifice without focusing on ourselves."
The UK-headquartered oil company, which in July announced a record $11.5bn quarterly profit, also poured scorn on climate activists, with a communications specialist at the company emailing in 2019 that he wished "bedbugs" upon the Sunrise Movement, a youth-led US climate group.
Previous releases of internal documents have shown that the oil industry knew of the devastating impact of climate change but chose instead to downplay and even deny these findings publicly in order to maintain their business model.
The hearings have been attacked by Republicans as a method to "wage war on America's energy producers" and the oil companies involved have complained that the documents don't show the full picture of their stance on the climate crisis.
Exxon supports the 2015 Paris climate deal, a spokesman said, claiming that the "selective publication of dated emails, without context, is a deliberate attempt to generate a narrative that does not reflect the commitment of ExxonMobil and its employees, to address climate change and play a leading role in the transition to a net-zero future."
A Shell spokesman, meanwhile, said the committee chose to highlight only a small handful of the nearly half a million pages it provided to the body on its "extensive efforts" to take part in the energy transition.
"Within that pursuit are challenging internal and external discussions that signal Shell's intent to form partnerships and share pathways we deem critical to becoming a net-zero energy business," he said.
#277
A surge in new oil and gas exploration in 2024 threatens to unleash nearly 12bn tonnes of planet-heating emissions, with the world's wealthiest countries - such as the US and the UK - leading a stampede of fossil fuel expansion in spite of their climate commitments, new data shared exclusively with the Guardian reveals.
The new oil and gas field licences forecast to be awarded across the world this year are on track to generate the highest level of emissions since those issued in 2018, as heatwaves, wildfires, drought and floods cause death and destruction globally, according to analysis of industry data by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD).
The 11.9bn tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions - which is roughly the same as China's annual carbon pollution - resulting over their lifetime from all current and upcoming oil and gas fields forecast to be licensed by the end of 2024 would be greater than the past four years combined. The projection includes licences awarded as of June 2024, as well as the oil and gas blocks open for bidding, under evaluation or planned.
Meanwhile, fossil fuel firms are ploughing more money into developing new oil and gas sites than at any time since the 2015 Paris climate deal, when the world's governments agreed to take steps to cut emissions and curb global heating.
The world's wealthiest countries are economically best placed - and obliged under the Paris accords - to lead the transition away from fossil fuels to cleaner energy sources. But these high-capacity countries with a low economic dependence on fossil fuels are spearheading the latest drilling frenzy despite dwindling easy-to-reach reserves, handing out 825 new licences in 2023, the largest number since records began.
Classic "petrostates" such as Saudi Arabia or Russia - which rely heavily on oil and gas revenues to balance their budgets - have faced criticism for slowing action on the climate crisis. Yet countries including the UK, the US, Canada, Norway and Australia are increasingly being thought of by some experts as the "other petrostates" , given they have access to financial and technological resources that would make the energy transition less disruptive.
While they are often portrayed as climate leaders on the world stage, these five wealthy countries are responsible for more than two-thirds (67%) of all new oil and gas licences issued globally since 2020.
"The logical first step in a 'transition away' from oil and gas is to stop opening new fields," said co-author Olivier Bois von Kursk, who is a policy adviser at the IISD.
"So it is deeply concerning that exploration activity has not just continued since the Cop28 agreement but increased. Rich countries with relatively low dependence on fossil fuel revenues should be the first to stop issuing licences. We're not seeing that in the data."
The hypocrisy of wealthy nations is staggering as they continue to invest heavily in fossil fuels
Harjeet Singh of the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative
Under the Biden administration, the US has handed out 1,453 new oil and gas licences, accounting for half of the total globally and 83% of all licences handed out by wealthy nations. This is 20% more than during the term of Donald Trump, who has promised to "drill, baby, drill" should he return to the White House.
The oil and gas industry continues to invest big in political influence in petrostates, spending $1.25bn (£1bn) on lobbying in Washington and more than $650m (£504m) in campaign contributions over the past decade, according to Open Secrets.
Oil and gas drilling rigs sitting near Invergordon in Cromarty Firth, Scotland. The UK is forecast to hand out a record 72 oil and gas licences this year, which could result in an estimated 101m tonnes of planet-warming pollution. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod/The Guardian
Meanwhile, the UK handed out more licences than any other country in May, although it is China, the world's leading carbon emitter, that is forecast to approve the most oil and gas blocks in the rest of 2024. The UK's newly elected Labour government has pledged to stop new drilling, but it's unclear whether the glut of licences doled out by the outgoing Conservative party can be cancelled.
The new analysis of Rystad industry and government data by the IISD also shows:
* Over the past decade, new licences issued by high-capacity, low-dependency countries including the US, the UK, Canada, Australia and Norway are estimated to have contributed five times more greenhouse gas emissions between 2014 and 2023 than all other oil- and gas-producing countries combined.
* The US, which has become the world's largest oil and gas producer by a huge margin in recent years, led the way in 2023 by issuing a record 758 new licences for extraction projects - almost as many as the previous three years combined. The total number of projected licences by the US for 2024 would lead to an estimated 397m tonnes of emissions.
* The UK is forecast to hand out 72 oil and gas licences this year, which would result in an estimated 101m tonnes of planet-warming pollution, a 50-year high.
* Norway is projected to hand out 80 oil and gas licences this year, resulting in 771m tonnes of greenhouse gas pollution - threatening the biggest contribution to global emissions since 2009 and the equivalent of putting 183m new gasoline-powered cars on the road.
* Australia is forecast to award 20 new licences in 2024, which if it happens could generate an estimated 217m tonnes of carbon pollution in the long term - the most since 2009 and more than the past five years combined.
* The latest data shows that Russia will account for three-quarters of global emissions resulting from new licences awarded in June, according to a new monthly IISD newsletter.
* The amount spent by major oil and gas companies on exploring and developing new wells has climbed significantly since the Covid-19 pandemic, with $302bn to be spent on well development this year, the most in a decade.
The UK, Norwegian and Australian governments disputed some of the figures and defended their climate policies. The US and Canada did not respond.
The glut of new oil and gas activity comes as July is on track to be the 14th hottest consecutive month on record, as communities across the world grapple with deadly extreme weather and slow-onset climate disasters such as sea level rise and melting glaciers. The last decade was the hottest ever recorded, with 2023 the single hottest year.
A recent study found the world has enough fossil fuel projects planned to meet global energy demand forecasts to 2050 - if governments deliver the changes promised in order to keep the world from breaching its climate targets.
But the oil and gas rush, led by the richest countries, risks demolishing hopes that the world can stay within internationally agreed-upon limits aimed at preventing catastrophic heatwaves, wildfires, flooding and other impacts. No new oil and gas project can proceed if the Paris agreement, which calls for global temperatures to be restrained to a 1.5C (2.7F) rise above preindustrial levels, is to be met, according to the International Energy Agency.
Despite this, countries are pushing ahead with a huge expansion in oil and gas activity, identifying and developing new resources at a pace not seen since the Paris deal was inked in a wave of optimism in 2015.
The world's consumption of fossil fuels climbed to a record high last year even as investment into clean energy such as solar and wind started to eclipse coal, oil and gas. PetroChina, the Chinese state-owned oil and gas arm, has spent the most on both exploration and well development over the past decade, with ExxonMobil, Saudi Aramco, Sinopec and Chevron among other businesses sinking the largest investments in new oil and gas.
So far in 2024, the three dozen or so high-capacity, low-dependency countries including the US, the UK and Norway have issued 121 new licences - more than the rest of the world combined.
The newly licensed reserves in rich countries - which are smaller and harder to reach because the larger reserves have already been exploited - could eventually generate 172m tonnes of CO2, the equivalent that would be produced by 43 new coal plants.
Those are the same countries that are also ploughing ahead with huge tax giveaways for industry-led "solutions" like carbon capture and storage and "blue" hydrogen that independent experts say are inefficient, unjust and economically damaging.
The data reveals a deep-seated inequity - and a key climate justice issue - that developing countries have for years tried to raise at the annual UN climate talks. In order to honour their legally binding obligations under the Paris agreement, developed countries must go first when it comes to phasing out fossil fuels, starting immediately, and stopping expansion plans.
"The hypocrisy of wealthy nations, historically responsible for the climate crisis, is staggering as they continue to invest heavily in fossil fuels - putting the world on track for unimaginable climate catastrophe while claiming to be climate leaders," said Harjeet Singh, global engagement director for the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative.
"Despite having the economic means to transition away from fossil fuels, these nations are petrostates choosing profit over the planet, undermining global efforts to avert the climate emergency."
Mega-licences - big blocks that will result in the most emissions - are typically awarded in developing countries such as Mozambique, which have a low capacity to transition away from oil and gas.
Developed countries have contributed the most to the climate crisis and benefited the most from fossil fuels, while developing countries have contributed least but are suffering the worst effects - in part because they do not have equal access to mitigate, adapt and recover from climate impacts such as drought, floods, wildfires and extreme heat.
"The US has become a petrostate and is still, even under President Biden, permitting new drilling," said John Sterman, a climate policy expert at MIT. "The developed countries don't show any significant efforts to limit drilling, but it's not just them. Guyana and countries in south-east Asia are also aggressively seeking to expand exploitation activity. This is about national policy but it's also being driven by the oil companies."
Sterman said there was a "fundamental contradiction" between the promises made by countries at annual UN climate summits and the ongoing oil and gas expansion. "We can't keep going on like this," he said.
Just five global north governments - the US, the UK, Australia, Canada and Norway - are responsible for a majority (51%) of planned expansion from new oil and gas fields through 2050, and they stand out as the biggest climate hypocrites, according to the Planet Wreckers report by Oil Change International last year.
The Biden administration has defended its record - even as the US entrenched its position as the world's largest oil and gas producer. John Podesta, Biden's top climate adviser, said last month that US production was "a good thing, because following the illegal invasion of Ukraine, and the need that Europe had to rely on different sources rather than Russia fossils, it was important that the US could step up and supply a good deal of that need".
Venture Global's CP1 plant, where a planned $10bn extension would shift about 20m tonnes of LNG at capacity, single-handedly boosting US gas exports by a fifth and causing planet-heating pollution equal to 46 coal-fired power plants. Photograph: Bryan Tarnowski/The Guardian
Podesta added: "But over time, the science is clear, we've got to transition away and begin to replace those resources with both zero carbon electricity and renewable resources."
Canada's prime minister, Justin Trudeau, has previously defended the country's climate policies and hailed its 2030 emissions reduction plan, and in April this year said it was on a solid path towards its reduction targets while making "historic investments in clean technology".
A spokesperson for the UK Department for Energy Security and Net Zero said: "Making Britain a clean energy superpower is at the heart of the government's agenda, securing our energy independence and tackling the climate crisis ... We will not issue new licences to explore new fields and will not revoke existing oil and gas licences. We will manage existing fields for the entirety of their lifespan."
Elisabeth Sæther, Norway's petroleum ministry state secretary, said that her country was committed to cutting its emissions. "At the same time, we see that the world will still need oil and gas," she added. "Europe will remain dependent on imports from other regions for many years. Norwegian oil and gas can contribute to a sustainable, affordable and secure energy supply."
A spokesperson for the Australian government said: "Reaching net zero, and decarbonising our economy as quickly as possible, remains front and centre of the Albanese government's agenda.

"Our energy policies are sensible and pragmatic, focused on delivering the shift to clean, cheap energy that Australians deserve, bringing down prices for households and businesses while also cutting emissions."
Earlier this month, Hurricane Beryl, the earliest category 5 storm ever observed in the Atlantic, ripped a path of destruction through the Caribbean, Mexico and Texas, leaving at least 11 people dead and thousands homeless.
In the aftermath, Ralph Gonsalves, the prime minister of St Vincent and the Grenadines, where Beryl "flattened" one island and severely damaged others in the archipelago, said: "What we see here are the consequences of a rampaging climate change. We are in the era of the Anthropocene. And the developed countries, the major emitters, are not taking this matter seriously.
"The world, if we don't move to net zero, we are going to be a very inhospitable place to be in another two, three decades. I mean, this is not scaremongering; this is science. And we are on the frontlines of this."
#278
The UK government has given £20bn more in support to fossil fuel producers than those of renewables since 2015, the Guardian can reveal.
The research, commissioned by the Liberal Democrats, found that while renewable energy was given £60bn in support over that time, fossil fuel companies were given close to £80bn.
In 2020, renewable energy support was greater than fossil fuel support for the first time. However, fossil fuels have been receiving greater additional investment recently. From 2020 to 2021 they received an extra £1bn support from the government compared with 2020, a 10.7% increase. For renewable energy in the same year, total support for projects increased by just £1m, or 0.01%.
Analysis by the House of Commons library found that a fifth of the money given directly to the fossil fuel industry was to support new extraction and mining. In 2021, support for fossil fuel extraction rose by 20% to nearly £2bn.
Politicians have asked the government to put net zero at the heart of policy decisions instead of funding fossil fuel corporations.
Wera Hobhouse, the Liberal Democrat climate and energy spokesperson, said: "It is extremely alarming that the Conservative government has been giving these staggering amounts to the fossil fuel industry. Not only have the Conservatives failed to properly tax the record profits of the oil and gas giants, they have showered these companies with taxpayer money too.
"We have been through one of the toughest winters on record and the energy crisis is still biting hard. The government squandered the opportunity to shield us from these spiralling energy bills through their lack of long-term thinking. For years, they gave billions to the fossil fuel industry, rather than actually improving our energy security by investing properly in renewables.
"This is just yet more proof of the government's legacy of failure on climate change. They need to get a grip and start putting net zero at the heart of all our policy decisions. It will grant us the energy-secure, green future we desperately need."
She added that, when in the coalition government, the Liberal Democrats tripled renewable energy generation, and said the Lib Dems would also end new listings of fossil fuel companies on the London Stock Exchange and require existing fossil fuel companies to set out how they will transition to net zero.
Fossil fuel companies have been criticised for not investing sufficiently in renewables, despite getting tax breaks and funding from government. Shell and BP made £32bn and £23bn in profit last year respectively while energy bills rose. Shell invested nearly £10bn into oil and gas projects over the year, compared with just £3bn in its renewable energy division. Similarly, BP has announced that it is scaling back the ambition for its emission-cutting targets. Previously, the fossil fuel producer had said it wanted to cut emissions by 35-40% by 2030, but now it has committed to a 20-30% reduction.
A government spokesperson said: "This is utterly misleading analysis. The Climate Change Committee themselves have said we'll still need some fossil fuels as part of our move towards the net zero target, which is why we must ensure we remain an attractive investment for all energy sectors, as we have consistently been for renewables.
"Our domestic oil and gas industry have a vital role ensuring energy security and the transition to net zero, and alongside that since 2010 the UK has seen more than a 500% increase in the amount of renewable electricity capacity connected to the grid, making the UK a world leader in offshore wind with the most installed capacity in Europe. This will play a key role in achieving net zero by 2050, and will create thousands of new jobs around the country."
#279

It was the 2000s, and fossil fuel prices were rising worldwide. After a period of volatility in the 1980s, the crude oil price per barrel had reached one of its lowest points - $20 - at the end of 2001 but then, over the course of six years, it tripled before a new oil shock saw prices surpass those of the 1970s, reaching a record $145 a barrel on 3 July 2008.
Uruguay imports its oil, so it had a problem. Demand for energy in the country had grown by 8.4% the previous year and household energy bills were increasing at a similar rate. The 3.4 million-strong population was becoming restless. Lacking alternatives, President Tabaré Vázquez was forced to buy energy from neighbouring states at higher prices, even though Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay had a mutual aid agreement in case of emergency conditions.
To escape the trap, Vázquez needed rapid solutions. He turned to an unlikely source: Ramón Méndez Galain, a physicist who would transform the country's energy grid into one of the cleanest in the world.
Today, the country has almost phased out fossil fuels in electricity production. Depending on the weather, anything between 90% and 95% of its power comes from renewables. In some years, that number has crept as high as 98%.
Phasing out fossil fuels was a central issue at Cop28. After a week of tense negotiations in Dubai, countries agreed to transition away from fossil fuels within energy systems - but campaigners, governments and environmental experts continue to debate how to make that transition.
Physicist Ramón Méndez Galain: 'I thought I could understand a little about this problem.'
One answer could lie in what Uruguay has achieved within a decade and a half.
"I had been working abroad for 14 years, and when I came back, there was this energy crisis, but the only solution people were giving was to install a nuclear power plant - that was it," Galain remembers. "I was a nuclear physicist, so I thought I could understand a little about this problem."
The more Galain researched the issue, the more he became convinced that nuclear power was not the answer for Uruguay. Instead, he argued, it was renewables. He published his findings in a paper that laid out his belief that the country should go all in on wind power. Soon after, he received a phone call inviting him to become Uruguay's energy secretary and to implement his plan.
"Imagine my surprise," Galain says. "This was crazy. But I did something even more crazy: I accepted."
Uruguay is a small country - about 26% smaller than the UK by area - wedged between two giants. Argentina's sprawling capital, Buenos Aires, lies 31 miles (50km) south of the mouth of the Rio de la Plata, which forms part of the border between the two countries, while Uruguay shares its northern border with Brazil.
In this context, the country is easily overlooked. However, economically it is a South American success story. Its GDP per capita was £16,420 in 2022, according to the World Bank, the highest on the continent; only a tiny fraction of its population lives in extreme poverty. The country has a burgeoning middle class - accounting for about 60% of the population - and there are high expectations for lifestyle and opportunities.
Such demographic change has driven demand for the trappings of a contemporary, 21st-century lifestyle. Homes are fitted with washing machines and dishwashers, and air-conditioning units have become commonplace, as have vast flat-screen TVs and connected devices.
All of that requires power. Over the course of about a decade, Uruguay, under the stewardship of Galain, installed about 50 windfarms across the country, decarbonised the grid and bolstered its hydropower.
The biggest challenge, however, was to change the "narrative" about renewables. Back then, sustainable energies were still surrounded by many misconceptions, says Galain: they were too expensive, too intermittent or would raise unemployment - and changing these stories proved vital to getting buy-in from all levels of society.
"No one believed we could do it. We needed new solutions. We needed to do things differently," he says. "Today, even members of that cabinet say to me: 'When you were saying those things on TV in 2008, we were thinking, how are we going to explain this when we fail?'"
Galain says there needed to be a "strong national narrative" to make it work. "I told people this was the best option even if they don't believe climate change exists. It's the cheapest and not dependent on crazy fluctuations [in oil prices]."
With that narrative, the government set about winning over a sceptical populace. One initial concern was that jobs would be lost in the energy sector. Instead, about 50,000 new jobs were created - a large number in a country with such a small population. The idea of a "just transition", in which nobody was left behind, became central, and some workers were offered places on retraining schemes to adapt to the new normal.
Others were able to take advantage of the changes. Santiago Revello, 52, owns a beef farm in central Uruguay, about 175 miles north of the capital, Montevideo. Beef production is a primary industry across the country, owing to its vast swathes of grasslands.
The farm broke even financiallybut in 2009, the Revello family was debating whether to sell its farm. That was when Revello met Fernando Schaich, who ran what was previously a small energy-efficiency consultancy, and had learned about the country's transition to renewables.
Schaich had spotted an opportunity in the transition plan early on. His company had previously made its money by advising businesses on how they could cut their energy usage, but it moved into windfarm development. He told Revello that his family's farm could be a site for an onshore windfarm - and that building one need not affect his cattle.
The pair prepared a bid for a contract and went to a developer, but lost. "Fernando was gutted by this," Revello says. "He told me: 'You can go with another company.' But he had always been honest with me, so I told him: 'It's not all about money.'"
Today, Revello's farm is home to 22 wind turbines, a side business that gives the family a healthy source of income.
#280
The US and Australia have stressed the importance of breaking the near-complete reliance on China for zero emissions technology supplies while signing a new agreement that promises to accelerate the development of climate solutions.
In a joint press conference in Sydney, the US energy secretary, Jennifer Granholm, and the Australian climate change and energy minister, Chris Bowen, announced a "net zero technology acceleration partnership", including an initial focus on long-duration energy storage and digitising power grids.
They said the agreement was motivated in part by the need for a clean energy and critical mineral supply chain that did not depend as much on China, which is responsible for about 80% of solar energy technology manufacturing. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), it is expected to reach 95% by 2025.
Granholm compared the risk of relying on China for clean technology to the west's over-dependence on Russian fossil fuels - a mistake that sparked a global energy crisis after it invaded Ukraine.
"I worry that China has big-footed a lot of the technology and supply chains that could make us vulnerable if we don't develop our own supply chains," she said. "From an energy security point of view, it is imperative that nations that share the same values develop our own supply chains, not just for the climate, but for our energy security.
"We've seen what happens when we rely too much on one entity for our source of fuel, and we don't want that to happen - so to diversify those energy sources and to link up with partners is part of our energy security."
Bowen agreed. "It's good for our own economies and it's good for our national security to have supply chains among ourselves, but also amongst friends and allies," he said.
The Australian minister said the partnership would "work to ensure critical minerals supply chains are secure and resilient". That meant ramping up production, processing and manufacturing capacity, he said. "The partnership is a commitment to make climate change a centrepiece of our alliance with the US," he said.
Granholm said the switch to renewables could be "the greatest peace plan of all" as no country could be "held hostage" over its access to solar and wind resources. "They have not ever been weaponised, nor will they be," she said.
The Australia-US partnership included few details, but said the countries would also focus on supporting the integration of variable renewable energy and the development of hydrogen and carbon dioxide removal, including direct air capture technology.
It was revealed on the sidelines of the Sydney Energy Forum, co-hosted by the Australian government and the IEA. A common theme among speakers at the forum was the importance of focusing on renewable energy to address the crisis caused by Russia's attack on Ukraine.
The IEA's executive director, Fatih Birol, said the world was in the middle of "the first global energy crisis" due to its over-reliance on Russian oil, gas and coal. He said it might get worse as the northern hemisphere entered winter, but expressed hope it could lead to governments accelerating the shift towards renewable energy.
Birol said about 40% of energy policies across the globe were introduced as a response to the oil crisis of the 1970s. He was "very hopeful" that the move to clean energy would be accelerated in a similar way now.
He said solar power had grown dramatically across the globe because it was cheap, and that people who argued that renewable energy policy was in part to blame for the crisis were "absolutely wrong". "Factually and, in my view, ethically, this is very wrong and misleading," he said.
The forum was opened by Anthony Albanese arguing Australia had rejoined the ranks of "trusted global partner". The prime minister later told reporters it was time for Australia to "stop the nonsense", "wake up" and work across the political divide to end the climate wars. 
Albanese said the latest round of catastrophic flooding made the case to get on with legislating a more ambitious policy. He said Labor would attempt to legislate its medium-term emissions target when parliament resumed, and if MPs or senators chose to vote against the legislation they would be "held accountable for it".
The prime minister said he was open to "sensible amendments" but not "game playing about figures plucked from the air", and reiterated that Labor intended to stick with its target of a 43% emissions cut by 2030 compared with 2005 that it had modelled last year.
The Greens and some independents have called for a higher target - ranging from 50% to 75% - based on advice from climate scientists.
#281

Greenhouse gas emissions from the energy industry continued to rise to new highs last year despite record growth in wind and solar power, according to a comprehensive review of global energy data.
The report, undertaken by the Energy Institute, found that fossil fuels continued to make up 82% of the world's total energy consumption in 2022, in line with the year before, causing greenhouse gas emissions to climb by 0.8% as the world used more energy overall.
Global energy consumption is expected to rise further in the year ahead, potentially bringing higher greenhouse gas emissions, after China ended its strict Covid restrictions on travel this year that had previously kept a lid on jet fuel consumption.
Juliet Davenport, the Energy Institute's president, said: "Despite further strong growth in wind and solar in the power sector, overall global energy-related greenhouse gas emissions increased again. We are still heading in the opposite direction to that required by the Paris agreement."
The report, which is published in partnership with KPMG and the consultancy Kearney, found that renewable energy sources - excluding hydro power - met just 7.5% of the world's energy demand last year. This represents an increase of nearly 1% over the previous year, driven by record growth in wind and solar energy. Solar generation climbed by 25% in 2022 while wind power output grew by 13.5% compared with the year before.
However, the renewable energy boom was eclipsed by a modest rise in global energy consumption of 1.1% last year - compared to a 5.5% increase in 2021 - which meant more oil and coal was burnt to meet demand, the report found.
Simon Virley, the head of energy and natural resources at KPMG, said: "Despite record growth in renewables, the share of world energy still coming from fossil fuels remains stubbornly stuck at 82%, which should act as a clarion call for governments to inject more urgency into the energy transition."
Global oil demand rose by 2.9m barrels a day last year to reach an average of 97.3m bpd for 2022, in part due to the return of global economic activity after the Covid pandemic, according to the Energy Institute.
At the same time, demand for coal climbed to highs not seen since 2014, rising 0.6% compared with 2021, driven by demand in India and China, the report said. The appetite for coal power increased in line with record high prices for gas in Europe and Asia following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Gas made up 24% of the world's energy use last year, down from 25% the year before, but gas production remained relatively steady.
The Energy Institute warned that stubbornly high energy-related emissions risk derailing the aims of the Paris climate agreement unless urgent action is taken by global governments, according to the report. Under the Paris accord emissions should fall by half by the end of the decade to avoid triggering catastrophic levels of global heating.
Richard Forrest, the head of global sustainability at Kearney, said the rise in greenhouse gas emissions reinforced the need for "urgent action to get the world on track to meet the Paris targets". He added that the need to deliver clean, affordable and secure energy "has never been greater".
#282
Aberdeen, the centre of the UK's North Sea oil and gas industry for the past six decades, witnessed the launch of a new company this week that aims to sweep away Britain's dependence on fossil fuels for ever.
Great British Energy is at the heart of the recently elected Labour government's pitch to decarbonise the UK's power sector by 2030. Ed Miliband, the energy secretary, told an audience in Aberdeen on Thursday that the company would "harness the potential we have to truly lead the world in renewables jobs".
With £8.3bn in new government investment, GB Energy is one of the few new spending commitments Labour is planning, amid consternation among ministers over swingeing cuts elsewhere. But the crucial decisions that will determine whether GB Energy can be a success, or not, will be taken far from Aberdeen, in London's No 11 Downing Street. Rachel Reeves, the chancellor of the exchequer, is finalising her first autumn budget, set for 30 October, and experts fear that though the money for GB Energy will remain intact, she will place such tight restrictions on the company as to effectively cut off its lifeblood.
What's the plan for Great British Energy?
Great British Energy is one of the most recognisable and popular of the policies that brought Labour to power in July's general election. A national energy champion, in contrast to the foreign-owned companies that dominate the UK's energy scene; a company owned by the people of Britain that will invest in a new generation of renewable energy supply; a plan that will cut the UK's carbon footprint while reducing household bills.
The company will be led by Jürgen Maier, former UK chief executive of the engineering company Siemens, and a longstanding champion of clean technology. With £8.3bn in initial funding, GBE is one of the government's few remaining green spending pledges, after Labour's initial plans for a £28bn a year public investment in a "green industrial strategy" were gutted in February.
Offshore wind, including revolutionary floating turbines, tidal power, carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and other emerging technologies will be the focus of the company's investments. Maier wants GBE to stand alongside globally significant players such as Denmark's national clean energy company, Ørsted, and Sweden's Vattenfall.
But when Reeves stands up in parliament on 30 October, she is unlikely to give Maier the boost that many experts say is needed. The Guardian understands that the Treasury is determined to keep GBE within tight fiscal controls. That means it will not have the powers to borrow new money to invest, lest any debt that it accumulates could be counted towards the government's massive debt pile, and upset delicate calculations on Reeves's fiscal rules.
Failing to give GBE the freedom to borrow would be a crucial mistake, according to Mathew Lawrence, the founder and director of the Common Wealth thinktank, credited with coming up with the original idea for a national energy company. "Reeves should exempt GBE from public sector net borrowing rules," he said. "She can do that."
Maier is more circumspect. He appears to still hold out hope of a change of mind from the Treasury at some point, telling the Guardian: "Whether in the future we can borrow or not, I think is a discussion for later on."
Reeves also seems to prefer GBE to take minority stakes in large renewable energy projects. That too is a problem, according to Lawrence. "GBE should take majority stakes, in order to have control over these projects," he said.
According to Lawrence, the key benefits that GBE can deliver to boost the UK's green energy sector are: cost, coherence and certainty. On cost, GBE can lower costs by using the government's might to invest capital more efficiently and at lower interest rates than private companies can access.
Coherence means that the government can take an overview of the UK's energy needs and invest strategically to meet them, unlike private companies, which can only take a piecemeal view. Certainty reflects the fact that the government is driven not by short-term profit like the private sector, but by a long-term goal of decarbonising power, which gives a clear future direction that all its investments and policies must work towards.
Industry is ready to work with the government, the Guardian has found, but businesses want to see more clarity from ministers over the plans. One senior industry source told the Guardian that "increasingly there is a meeting of minds" between investors and government officials over the role for the new entity.
That marks a change in attitude, as GBE was initially a cause for concern among businesses. Senior executives within Europe's largest energy companies feared that a state-backed enterprise would lay claim to preferential treatment in the government's clean energy schemes - and potentially edge out private capital. Miliband has been quick to reassure the industry that GB Energy would seek to "crowd in" new investment rather than crowd it out.
Emma Pinchbeck, the chief executive of Energy UK, the industry's trade body, who is shortly to take up a new role as chief executive of the Climate Change Committee, the statutory adviser to ministers on climate policy, said the public energy company had "great potential to advance the UK's clean energy ambitions" if it tried to "support and complement - rather than duplicate - the investment, expertise and experience of the private sector".
"Kickstarting the development of newer technologies and supporting community projects while larger and established sources like wind and solar continue to grow, would also fulfil an existing need," she said.
Which areas will it invest in?
GB Energy's first step has been in the direction of Britain's world-leading offshore wind sector. It has included a partnership with the crown estate, which aims to accelerate the build-out of enough giant offshore windfarms across the estate's seabed off the coastlines of England and Wales to power 20m homes.
Through this partnership GB Energy will undertake early development work on sites before the seabed licences are granted to windfarm developers to help speed up the process. In exchange it will claim a small stake in the windfarm. This is expected to accelerate the £60bn of private sector investment in the government's green energy goals - and deliver healthy returns for GB Energy.
Keith Anderson, the chief executive of Scottish Power, which recently doubled its spending plans for the UK for the next four years to £24bn, said: "More than ever, the government is heading in the right direction. If targeted properly, GB Energy will directly support [the 2030 clean energy target] by producing a plan we can all get behind and deliver."
There remains uncertainty over which areas the government will target beyond offshore wind. Anderson believes that emerging technologies - controversial with many environmentalists - such as green hydrogen and carbon capture and storage are ripe for "tailored support" from the government, which could include investment from GB Energy. "Funding for Britain's ports will also speed up the development of offshore wind and create growth for coastal communities," he said.
Greg Jackson, the chief executive and founder of Octopus Energy, pointed to long-duration energy storage as another example of currently underfunded emerging technologies where GB Energy could "unlock private capital through co-investment".
Ahead of the budget, investors are less concerned about the amount of public sector funding available than about gaining clarity around the government's plans, and the policies and regulations which will underpin them.
"Whether investment comes from the government or from the private sector - the key thing is policy," said Jackson.
GBE is also critical for Scotland, for the 200,000 jobs in North Sea oil and gas, which Labour is anxious to reassure voters will still be stable for decades to come. Aberdeen was chosen as headquarters for political reasons: to help offset the complaints from North Sea oil and gas companies about the Treasury's decision to increase windfall taxes, partly to fund GB Energy, and Miliband's determination to block new oil exploration licences - complaints the Scottish Conservatives and Scottish National party have amplified.
The UK government also faces a further stiff test next summer, when 400 oil industry jobs will be lost with the closure of Scotland's only oil refinery at Grangemouth, with over 2,000 more in the supply chain threatened.
That is intensifying pressure on the Treasury to properly fund projects on the so-called just transition, where unemployed oil workers are helped to find new jobs in the green economy, including new college courses or a government-funded "skills passport" where oil workers can transfer their oil industry skills to renewables.
Senior Labour sources in Scotland said they wanted to see progress on cutting household electricity bills and new rules to ensure communities that host these new green energy projects, including the new pylons and subsea cables needed, get a share of the profits.
Michael Shanks, a Scottish MP who became a junior energy minister in July, told UK Labour conference in Liverpool last month that "quite significantly" improving these community benefit schemes was a priority - including giving them a direct stake in GB Energy projects.
"We want to look at how communities can be in the driving seat of some of that. So instead of developers deciding what that looks like, it should be compulsory, but also a community has some stake in designing it. And that goes for network infrastructure as well, not just the generation," he said.
A senior Labour figure said there were early indications the Treasury would authorise spending on enlarging Scotland's coastal ports, which are ill-prepared for the huge wind turbines and installation vessels needed for the vast new offshore windfarms being planned.
The Scottish Trades Union Congress has told Labour ministers GB Energy needs to focus a significant proportion of its investment in Scotland, because a disproportionate number of North Sea jobs are there.
Roz Foyer, the STUC's general secretary, said 84,000 Scottish workers depended on oil and gas jobs, while the numbers employed in renewables, estimated at 6,000 people, had barely risen in Scotland over the past decade despite the heavy investment in windfarms. "The investment in GB Energy has to go disproportionately to Scotland because of the disproportionate amount of oil and gas jobs that are going to be lost," she said.
Decarbonising UK electricity by 2030 will be a stretching target - even if new renewables are built swiftly and grid connection problems resolved, a small amount of gas-fired power is still likely to be needed. But experts told the Guardian that even if the target was missed, the effort should put the UK on track to meet net zero and help dispense with volatile fossil fuels. Shaun Spiers, the executive director of the Green Alliance, said: "Lots of questions remain, but the government has hit the ground running in setting up GB Energy to speed the transition to clean power, and that should be strongly welcomed."
#283
Germany is bracing itself for a potentially permanent halt to the flow of Russian gas from Monday when maintenance work begins on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline that brings the fuel to Europe's largest economy via the Baltic Sea.
The work on the 759-mile (1,220km) pipeline is an annual event and requires the gas taps to be closed for 10 to 14 days. But never before in the pipeline's decade-long history has Germany seriously been asking whether the flow will begin again.
Robert Habeck, Germany's economy minister, has not shied away from addressing the government's concerns. On Saturday, he spoke of the "nightmare scenario" that could occur.
Everything is possible, everything can happen," Habeck told the broadcaster Deutschlandfunk. "It could be that the gas flows again, maybe more than before. It can also be the case that nothing comes.
"We need to honestly prepare for the worst-case scenario and do our best to try to deal with the situation."
Contingency plans are rapidly being drawn up across Germany, where there are genuine concerns that Moscow may use the opportunity to further weaponise gas as a lever against the west in its war with Ukraine and permanently turn off supplies.
Russian gas is vital to the running of Germany's economy as well as keeping the majority of homes warm. Flows through the pipeline have been reduced in recent months and are at about 40% of the usual levels. Russia has blamed sanctions for the reduced flow, arguing they have hindered its access to spare parts.
On Saturday, Canada said after consultation with Germany and the International Energy Agency that it would issue a temporary exemption to sanctions against Russia in order to allow the return from Montreal of a repaired Russian turbine that is required for the maintenance work to be carried out.
On Friday, the Kremlin said it would increase gas supplies to Europe once the turbine was returned to Russia. Ukraine has objected to this, arguing it helps continue the continent's dependency on Russian gas.
But Canada's natural resources minister, Jonathan Wilkinson, said the permission is "time-limited" and will help "Europe's ability to access reliable and affordable energy as they continue to transition away from Russian oil and gas".
Since the start of the war in February, Germany has been working to reduce its dependence on Russian gas, including through the construction of liquefied natural gas (LNG) ports.
On Friday, emergency legislation completed its passage through both houses of parliament to allow the reactivation of mothballed coal power plants, despite their carbon intensity.
But the overall withdrawal process has been complex and slow.
The short-term goal is to attempt to replenish stocks in Germany's gas storage facilities to last the winter. The most recent reading, released by the Federal Network Agency on Friday, showed storage facilities to be at 63% capacity. The goal is 90% by 1 November.
The longer-term target is to lessen dependency on gas by increasing the generation of renewable energy, in part by redefining the sectors as being of vital importance to national security.
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST
German industry and households consume about two-thirds of the country's gas supplies.
Plans are already in place to prioritise who would have access to gas in case of a cut. Hospitals and emergency services top the list, while households are ranked above most industrial concerns.
But on a more local level, as authorities battle with rising energy costs and the challenge of how to cope if households are left in the cold this winter, contingency plans are in place involving everything from shutting swimming pools, turning off street lamps and traffic lights, and housing citizens in industrial-scale dormitories. Not long ago destined for coronavirus patients, the makeshift containers have been described as "warm rooms" or "warmth islands".
Meanwhile, demand for everything that heats without gas is at an unprecedented high, including electric and oil heaters, infrared panels and convectors, as well as basic camping stoves.
Installers of wood-burning ovens and heat pumps report long waiting lists and cite a chronic lack of parts, as well as a shortage of qualified personnel.
#284
n 2019, France's best known climate expert sat down to work with its most feted graphic novelist. The result? Perhaps the most terrifying comic ever drawn.
Part history, part analysis, part vision for the future, World Without End weaves the story of humanity's rapacious appetite for fossil fuel energy, how it has made possible the society people take for granted, and its disastrous effects on the climate.

World Without End was an immediate hit with French readers
Among French readers it was an immediate smash hit, selling more than 1m copies so far, becoming the country's top-selling book in all categories in 2022 and hailed as "one of the most brilliant summaries of climate issues ever written".
But its controversial solutions provoked a backlash from some quarters. The criticisms now seem set to follow the book into the anglophone world, where it appears next week in print in English for the first time.
When Christophe Blain began work on World Without End, he was already France's most celebrated comic book artist and a recipient of international awards. He was in the enviable position of being able to choose any creative project.
He chose to call Jean-Marc Jancovici, one of France's foremost climate science communicators. "I was frightened," said Blain, in an interview with the Guardian. "I realised that the climate change was a reality. When I'm frightened I have to move - I can't stay still, I have to jump in the action. And the action was to call Jean-Marc and tell him let's make a book together."
It was an opportunity for which Jancovici, already author of eight books on climate breakdown and energy transition, whose online lectures on the topics had been viewed millions of times, had been waiting.
"I felt very excited because it was a way that I knew would work for sure to get to an audience that doesn't read books and who is not in my ecosystem," he said. "It was a way to reach people that remained out of reach before, because you can add a zero to the number of copies for a graphic novel compared to a classical essay."
Together, Blain and Jancovici devised a revealing deconstruction of the human-made processes that have pushed the planet to the brink of climate collapse, full of incredible observations, such as the fact that the effects of fossil fuel energy mean it is as if each human had, on average, 200 enslaved people working for them, or that, without machines, 1.5 trillion people would have to work to produce the same amount of energy.
There are also painful truths, including the little acknowledged fact that 35% of the world's electricity is still produced from coal - the dirtiest of all fossil fuels.
But the book's most powerful element lies in its use of a series of evocative images to decode concepts of energy production and consumption, and its burden on our planet.
Most notably, the fossil fuel economy, and all the advantages it has given human civilisation, is depicted as Iron Man (or rather Armour Man in the UK version, for reasons of copyright), an exoskeleton donned by humanity to expand its powers to near omnipotence.
The image of a superhero came naturally, Jancovici said. "As our superpowers come from all the machinery that we have in the world, mixing up the human shape and the idea of machines, well I could either choose Terminator or Iron Man, and I chose Iron Man. It's a little bit more friendly."
But Iron Man has a problematic counterpart, the spectre - quite literally in World Without End - of greenhouse gas pollution. "One of the metaphors we could have used in the book is the history of Faust," Jancovici said. "First you enjoy, then you pay. It's exactly what fossil fuels are bringing us."
What sets World Without End apart from other examinations of climate breakdown is this look at the deep connection between energy abundance and the scientific and social progress it has enabled - comforts that cannot easily be abandoned - and the breakdown of our planet's climate.
"The new part in the book, in my view, is that one," said Jancovici. "It's to put in just one piece something that gathers both knowledge on the physical flows of our productive system and our way of living, and a major externality, which is climate change."
And that is also where its most terrifying aspect arises. World Without End describes a situation where the cataclysmic effects of climate change are beginning to grip human civilisation just as people can no longer use, and indeed are begin to run out of, the energy sources needed to cope with them.
The very name of the book can be seen as a précis of this paradox, Jancovici said. "It was Christophe's idea, and I thought that it expressed very well the romantic idea of a never-ending story of growth and abundance, which is exactly what fossil fuels brought us for a while. Of course the understatement in the title appears to anyone: the world is not without end."
That is where solutions come in - as well as the book's most-contested claim. Jancovici and Blain downplay the potential of renewable energies such as wind, solar and hydropower. Nuclear power, they say, is the only way to decarbonise power grids fast while maintaining the benefits of industrial society.
It is a position that led to criticism, even in France, which already gets most of its electricity from nuclear. Renewable energy advocates accused the book of a "pro-nuclear bias", pointing out Jancovici's connections to the energy industry through his think tank the Shift Project.
Some campaigners even took their actions into bookshops, masquerading as representatives of the French publisher, Dargaud, to persuade staff to insert an anti-nuclear "erratum" to copies.
Jancovici said that if the book were to be rewritten there would be less material on nuclear power, but not because he regrets it - he thought their position had been vindicated by the energy crisis provoked by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "Part of the debate is over in France," he said. "Anti-nuclear positions are not at all as mainstream in the media as they were five years ago. We owe that to Putin, because it has been a general movement all across Europe.
"On renewable energies what we wanted to say is not that they are totally useless, or without interest. It's that they by nature do not have the properties of dense and dispatchable fossil fuels, and that, of course, we can do something with them. But we won't do with them what we believe we can do, which is sustain an industrial civilisation on renewable energies alone."
Blain and Jancovici attributed the book's phenomenal sales to its shareability, its offering an easy and discreet way for people who cared about the climate issue to use it to explain the problems to others. "When the book was released, what I expected was the book would become viral. And it became viral," Blain said.
Jancovici added: "What happened is that the book was designed to be given, and this strategy became effective."
The authors' hope is that World Without End will precipitate a change in consciousness around energy consumption. "The book is made to understand the problem, to understand the orders of magnitude," Blain said.
"To understand what it costs, really, what it means, what is behind the scenes. When you understand that, it's impossible to think the same way as before ... You can see the things around you differently. You imagine your future life differently, for you, or your children, for your parents, for anybody. You know that the world will be different."
Or, as Jancovici put it: "It's the kilowatt hours, stupid."
#285
Donald Trump said on Saturday that Chris Wright, an oil and gas industry executive and a staunch defender of fossil fuel use, would be his pick to lead the US Department of Energy.
Wright is the founder and CEO of Liberty Energy, an oilfield services firm based in Denver, Colorado. He is expected to support Trump's plan to maximize production of oil and gas and to seek ways to boost generation of electricity, demand for which is rising for the first time in decades.
He is also likely to share Trump's opposition to global cooperation on fighting climate change. Wright has called climate change activists alarmist and has likened efforts by Democrats to combat global warming to Soviet-style communism.
"There is no climate crisis, and we're not in the midst of an energy transition, either," Wright said in a video posted to his LinkedIn profile last year.

Wright, who does not have any political experience, has written extensively on the need for more fossil fuel production to lift people out of poverty.
He has stood out among oil and gas executives for his freewheeling style, and describes himself as a tech nerd.
Wright made a media splash in 2019 when he drank fracking fluid on camera to demonstrate it was not dangerous.
US oil output hit the highest level any country has ever produced under Biden, and it is uncertain how much Wright and the incoming administration could boost that.
Most drilling decisions are driven by private companies working on land not owned by the federal government.
The Department of Energy handles US energy diplomacy, administers the Strategic Petroleum Reserve - which Trump has said he wants to replenish - and runs grant and loan programs to advance energy technologies, such as the Loan Programs Office.
The secretary also oversees the aging US nuclear weapons complex, nuclear energy waste disposal and 17 national labs.
If confirmed by the Senate, Wright will replace Jennifer Granholm, a supporter of electric vehicles and emerging energy sources like geothermal power, and a backer of carbon-free wind, solar and nuclear energy.
Wright will also likely be involved in the permitting of electricity transmission and the expansion of nuclear power, an energy source that is popular with both Republicans and Democrats but which is expensive and complicated to permit.
Power demand in the United States is surging for the first time in two decades amid growth in artificial intelligence, electric vehicles and cryptocurrencies.
Trump also announced on Saturday that he had picked one of his personal attorneys, Will Scharf, to serve as his White House staff secretary. Scharf is a former federal prosecutor who was a member of Trump's legal team in his successful attempt to get broad immunity from prosecution from the supreme court.
Writing on Twitter the day after Trump's election, Scharf greeted the news that Jack Smith, the special counsel who indicted the former president for his attempt to subvert the 2020 election, was winding down the Trump case and planned to resign with the words, "Bye Jack."
#286
Saudi Arabia is driving a huge global investment plan to create demand for its oil and gas in developing countries, an undercover investigation has revealed. Critics said the plan was designed to get countries "hooked on its harmful products".
Little was known about the oil demand sustainability programme (ODSP) but the investigation obtained detailed information on plans to drive up the use of fossil fuel-powered cars, buses and planes in Africa and elsewhere, as rich countries increasingly switch to clean energy.
The ODSP plans to accelerate the development of supersonic air travel, which it notes uses three times more jet fuel than conventional planes, and partner with a carmaker to mass produce a cheap combustion engine vehicle. Further plans promote power ships, which use polluting heavy fuel oil or gas to provide electricity to coastal communities.
The ODSP is overseen by Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, the crown prince Mohammed bin Salman, and involves its biggest organisations, such as the $700bn Public Investment Fund, the world's largest oil company, Aramco, the petrochemicals firm Sabic, and the government's most important ministries.
In publicly available information, the programme is largely presented as "removing barriers" to energy and transport in poorer countries and "increasing sustainability", for example by providing gas cooking stoves to replace wood burning.
However, all the planned projects revealed in the investigation by the Centre for Climate Reporting and Channel 4 News involve increasing the use of oil and gas. An official said this was "one of the main objectives".
The head of the World Bank said recently that rich countries and companies needed to help developing countries leapfrog over the fossil-fuelled economic growth of the past and roll out renewable energy. If they did not, Ajay Banga said, there was no hope of ending carbon emissions by 2050, as the world's scientists had repeatedly made clear was necessary to avoid climate catastrophe.
Saudi Arabia has said it is committed to the Paris agreement's climate goals to restrict global heating to well below 2C while aiming for a 1.5C rise at most. To achieve this, fossil fuel emission must fall rapidly and most oil and gas reserves must be kept in the ground, meaning climate policies, such as support for electric cars, pose a significant threat to the oil-rich state's revenues.
A significant issue at the UN's Cop28 climate summit, which will begin on Thursday, is whether countries can deliver a pledge to phase down - or phase out - fossil fuels. This year the climate crisis has smashed temperature records and supercharged extreme weather has taken lives and livelihoods around the world.
Mohamed Adow, the director of the thinktank Power Shift Africa, said: "The Saudi government is like a drug dealer trying to get Africa hooked on its harmful product.
"The rest of the world is weaning itself off dirty and polluting fossil fuels and Saudi Arabia is getting desperate for more customers and is turning its sights on Africa. It's repulsive.
"Africa cannot catch up with the rest of the world by trudging along in the footsteps of the polluting nations. It would mean we miss out on the benefits of modern energy solutions that Africa can take advantage of due to its massive renewable energy potential. We have the latecomer advantage, which means we can leapfrog to a genuine energy transition."
António Guterres, the UN secretary general, said in 2021: "We need to see adequate international support so African and other developing countries' economies can leapfrog polluting development and transition to a clean, sustainable energy pathway."
The Saudi Arabian ministry of energy did not respond to a request for comment.
The brief information on the programme's English-language website calls it the oil sustainability programme, while on the Arabic version it is described as the oil demand sustainability programme.
Its stated objective, according to the Arabic site, is to "sustain and develop the demand for hydrocarbons as a competitive source of energy, by raising its economic and environmental efficiency, while ensuring that the transition in the energy mix [is] sustainable for the kingdom of Saudi Arabia".
An announcement in June to the Saudi stock exchange about a memorandum of understanding signed by ODSP and the Saudi Industrial Export Company initially said it would enable "activities in the fields of sustaining the demand of oil". A correction the following day replaced this phrase with enabling "activities to increase energy access".
Details of the ODSP's projects were exposed after undercover reporters posed as potential investors and met officials from the Saudi government. This revealed that increasing demand for oil and gas in developing countries was a thread running through the planned projects.
The presentation used by the officials said the strategy was to "unlock demand in emerging markets by removing barriers to energy access through infrastructure investments".
When asked by the reporters whether the aim was to artificially stimulate demand in some key markets, an official said: "Yes, it's one of the main objectives that we are trying to accomplish.
"We don't believe it's possible that [developing countries] can skip this [fossil fuel] phase because, in order to implement electric vehicles fully, you'll need a ready infrastructure.
"A lot of African countries now do not have enough grid [electricity] to support their day-to-day lives. We believe they deserve the chance to get the required energy for their development now. Then in the future they can work to improve or to transit into more efficient energy sources."
One of the criteria for the selection of the ODSP's 46 projects was the "incremental demand potential", the officials said, with the programme facilitating the finance required for the projects.
The projects are in three categories: transport, utilities and materials, with the third promoting the replacement of some cement, steel and wood used in construction with oil-derived plastics.
"The objective of the transportation sector is to enhance the long-term sustainability of transportation fuel. We're talking about diesel, gasoline, and jet fuel," an official said, with financing roads part of the plan.
"We aim to accelerate and enhance the impact and adoption of internal combustion engine [ICE] technology and optimisation.
"We have also an opportunity for increasing availability and adoption of low-cost cars, especially in emerging markets. Only 3% of people are owning cars in Africa."
According to the presentation, the plan is to "partner with a car [manufacturer] in ... the development and production of a highly competitive low-cost car" that will "have an oil uplift for the kingdom".
The ODSP is additionally targeting bus, ride-sharing and delivery services, according to the presentation: "The goal is to support the deployment of ICE fleets across developing countries to capture the increasing gasoline/diesel demand."
In aviation, the ODSP plans to increase flights by facilitating investments to "acquire or launch" a low-cost airline. The officials said work had begun on "fast-track development of commercial supersonic aviation", which "consumes more energy per-seat-km - 3x [that] of subsonic commercial aircraft."
The plans for electricity production include "oil-powered mini grids", which would burn diesel or heavy fuel oil, an official said. Investments would also be facilitated in ships that provide "floating power plants" driven by heavy fuel oil or gas.
Saudi Arabia signed agreements in November with Rwanda to "develop demand for hydrocarbon resources", with Nigeria on "promoting collaboration and strengthening our partnership in the oil and gas sector" and with Ethiopia to "cooperate on oil supply".
"The fact that African countries are so desperate that they fall for this trick rests on the failure of the historic polluting nations to honour their climate finance pledges," said Adow.
"But we need investment from rich countries that claim to be climate leaders. Otherwise we can expect more dodgy deals like this one, which endangers not just Africans but the global effort to ensure a safe and prosperous climate for all."
#287
Campaigners have claimed some of the world's largest economies are turning their backs on a pledge made last year to transition away from fossil fuels.
Ministers from the G20 group of developed and developing countries, including the US, UK, China and India, will meet in Rio de Janeiro on Wednesday to discuss the global approach to the climate crisis.
The talks will be chaired by Brazil, which holds the revolving presidency of the group. But members have left the explicit pledge out of the latest draft of their resolutions. The omission could result in a serious backsliding, campaigners fear, and they have called for the commitment to be reinstated.
In the first draft of the G20 communique on climate, which is under discussion, members explicitly reaffirmed the pledge to "transition away from fossil fuels". The phrase was the most important commitment to emerge from the UN Cop28 climate summit in Dubai last year.
Never before had all countries directly addressed the need to give up fossil fuels, with previous agreements focusing on greenhouse gas emissions, temperature rises and the need to boost renewable energy, rather than name the root cause of the climate crisis.
The "transition away" pledge, which does not carry a timeline, was regarded as weak by some campaigners but was fought by some oil-producing countries.
Since the Cop summit, there have also been signs that Saudi Arabia, in particular, has tried to reinterpret the pledge as simply one option among many, rather than an imperative.
This year's G20 meetings in Brazil are regarded as an important step to consolidating the progress made last year, and pushing the world forward to take action on the pledge.
Leaked documents seen by the Guardian show that in the latest draft of paragraph 5 of the communique, where the commitment appeared in the first draft, there is no repetition of the reference to "transition away".
Instead, there is an oblique reference to the pledge, through a reference to "the goals set forth" in the Cop28 outcome, which include the commitment to transition away.
The latest version of the crucial paragraph, under discussion by the TF-Clima group, as the G20 ministerial climate taskforce is known, reads: "We welcome and fully subscribe to the ambitious and balanced outcome of the UN climate change conference in Dubai (Cop28), particularly the first global stocktake (GST-1) of the Paris agreement, which builds on the intent of the G20 New Delhi leaders' declaration to pursue and encourage efforts to triple renewable energy capacity globally and other zero- and low-emission technologies, including abatement and removal technologies, and to double the rate of energy efficiency improvement by 2030.
"We commit to operationalising our steps in this regard and to contributing to the goals set forth in paragraph 28 of the GST-1 decision, in line with our national circumstances."
For the explicit pledge to be dropped from the G20 communique would mark a clear step backwards, campaigners warned.
Stela Herschmann, a climate policy specialist at Observatório do Clima in Brazil, said: "The resistance of countries to explicitly mention fossil fuels and the need to phase them out is evident, even after the GST-1 decision.
"However, there is no chance of limiting global warming to that level without tackling the root cause of the problem [fossil fuels] head on. Countries need to operationalise this now, and the G20 should lead this discussion, not shy away from it."
Shreeshan Venkatesh, a global policy lead at the Climate Action Network, said: "Climate impacts are escalating, hence the costs of our collective inaction are increasing too. However, finance is continuing to flow in the wrong direction, adding fuel to the rapidly intensifying climate crisis.
"In this context, it is very concerning that G20 countries are unwilling to come through on their responsibilities to rapidly divest from harmful fossil fuels and lead efforts to amend our current economic system in a manner that unlocks lifesaving green investments in the global south and fosters a just and equitable transition."
The leaders of the G20 countries will meet on 18 and 19 November, where geopolitics including the conflicts in Ukraine and Russia as well as Israel and Gaza are likely to dominate.
The conference will take place at the same time countries meet in Azerbaijan's capital, Baku, for the Cop29 climate summit on 11-22 November.
Next year's climate Cop - which stands for conference of the parties, under the 1992 UN framework convention on climate change, the parent treaty to the 2015 Paris agreement - will be held in Belém, in the Brazilian Amazon.
The country's president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, has taken a strong stance on economic justice as a significant theme of his G20 presidency.
Lula wants a global 2% wealth tax on billionaires, which would raise $250bn (£191bn), with some of the money going to help poor countries cope with the impacts of climate breakdown.
#288
Woodside Energy has suffered an embarrassing rebuke of its climate credentials after its emissions plan was overwhelmingly rejected by shareholders at its annual general meeting on Wednesday.
Investors lodged a 58% vote against Woodside's climate report, representing the strongest protest recorded against any of the dozens of listed companies around the world that regularly put climate-related resolutions to shareholders.
The Woodside chair, Richard Goyder, who survived a push against his own re-election at the AGM, said he was disappointed by the result, which was non-binding.
"The board will seriously consider the outcome when reviewing our approach to climate change," Goyder told shareholders in Perth. "We take the shareholder feedback seriously."
The well-known businessman, who also chairs Qantas and the AFL, was defiant, telling investors that Woodside's operations were part of the solution to climate change.
"The world's going to be a heck of a lot better off if it moves from coal-fired power to gas-fired power as soon as it can," he said.

The battle over Woodside's climate plan pitted the country's biggest oil and gas producer against global and Australian investors increasingly concerned about the energy sector's contribution to global warming.
Critics believe Woodside's strategy is overly reliant on offsets, not aligned with Paris climate agreements, and does not seriously consider emissions produced by those using its gas.
The producer has also been criticised for pursuing plans to develop new fields, representing an expansion in fossil fuel production at a time opponents say the sector must rein in emissions.
The criticism rubs against the position laid out by Woodside representatives, who repeatedly said the company was poised to "thrive through the energy transition" and was required for energy security.
The Woodside chief executive, Meg O'Neill, said the company was proud of the role gas was playing to support decarbonisation. She said some rivals had retreated on their climate goals after being unrealistic.
"At Woodside, we are determined to play our role in addressing climate change, but we won't make promises that we can't deliver," she said on Wednesday.
Climate reports, which detail how a company plans to align operations with rising environmental concerns, are subject to non-binding votes and therefore don't automatically trigger a policy change.
They are, however, a way for shareholders to express their disapproval, placing pressure on directors to change direction, especially given some of the world's biggest investment and pension funds, including AustralianSuper, have now voted against Woodside's plans.
Harriet Kater from the Australasian Centre for Corporate Responsibility, a shareholder advocacy group, said the scale of the report's rejection was "globally unprecedented" and that the board must now act.
"It is inconceivable for Richard Goyder's board to continue its trend of dismissing shareholder concerns following this overwhelming rejection of Woodside's climate plan," Kater said.
The AGM attracted a significant protest, with about 200 activists outside the meeting, flanked by police, chanting and holding placards with anti-Woodside messaging.
"Shame on Woodside, when you gonna learn, you can't make money on a planet that burns," they chanted, AAP reported. "Six months no rain, Woodside are to blame."
The AGM was briefly suspended at one stage to remove protesters who were in the meeting.
#289
Fossil fuel companies' funding of universities' climate-focused efforts is delaying the green transition, according to the most extensive peer-reviewed study to date of the industry's influence on academia.
For the study, published in the journal WIREs Climate Change on Thursday, six researchers pored over thousands of academic articles on industries' funding of research from the past two decades. Just a handful of them focused on oil and gas companies, showing a "worrying lack of attention" to the issue, the analysis says.
But even that small body of research shows a pattern of industry influence: "The academic integrity of higher education is at risk," they write.
During the past two decades, non-profits, campus organizers and a small group of scholars have sounded the alarm about oil companies' influence in academia, drawing parallels to tobacco, pharmaceuticals and food producers who have also funded scholarship.
In the new study, researchers found that out of roughly 14,000 peer-reviewed articles about conflicts of interest, bias and research funding across all industries from 2003 to 2023, only seven mentioned fossil fuels. When the authors broadened their search to look at book chapters, they found only seven more.
But even by combing through the small body of existing scholarship, the authors identified hundreds of instances in the US, UK, Canada and Australia where oil and gas interests had poured funding into climate and energy research while sitting on advisory or governing boards, endowing academic posts, sponsoring scholarships, advising curricula or otherwise influencing universities.
"We find that universities are an established yet under-researched vehicle of climate obstruction by the fossil fuel industry," the authors write.
The analysis found that oil companies have long influenced universities to focus on climate efforts that would enshrine a future for fossil fuels, despite experts' repeated warnings that the world must stop burning coal, oil and gas to avert the worst climate impacts.
"The science has been telling us that fossil fuel phase-out is the No 1 thing that we need to focus on, but within our universities, there's very little research on how to do fossil fuel phase-out," said Jennie Stephens, a climate justice professor at Maynooth University in Ireland and study co-author. "This provides some explanation for why society has been so ineffective and inadequate in our responses to the climate crisis."
Fossil fuel companies' relationships with universities can create the potential for bias in research and real or perceived conflicts of interest, the authors write.
"Our intention is to protect scientific integrity," said Geoffrey Supran, a University of Miami associate professor who studies fossil fuel industry messaging and co-authored the study. "We want to warn scholars and university leaders that they can be pawns in a propaganda scheme."
BP, for instance, funneled between $2.1m and $2.6m to Princeton University's Carbon Mitigation Initiative between 2012 and 2017. The initiative produced research on ways to decarbonize the economy.
"It's noteworthy of that the scenarios for decarbonization that the initiative outlined, only one of them didn't include a serious role to be played by fossil fuels paired with negative emissions technologies," said Supran.
The study highlights an internal 2017 campaign-strategy memo presented by a public relations firm to BP that proposed targeting Princeton as a "partner" that could help authenticate "BP's commitment to low carbon" despite its commitment to expanding planet-heating fossil fuel production.
In another example, an influential 2011 study from the MIT Energy Initiative called gas "a bridge to a low carbon future" even though it is a planet-heating fossil fuel. Several of the study's authors had financial ties to, and funding from, major oil and gas companies.
"The report helped to situate natural gas, or fossil gas, as part of the climate solution," said Stephens. "And it seemed to reinforce the Obama administration's all-of-the-above strategy," she added, referring to the former president's commitments to supporting both fossil fuels and renewables.
A spokesperson for the MIT Energy Initiative said funders "have no control" over the institute's reports: "no approval or rejection, no opportunity to accept or reject any findings". He added that the study in question was "developed and vigorously debated by a multidisciplinary team".
In an earlier example, the study notes that in 1997, Exxon paid a Harvard Law School professor to write about "why punitive damages awards are inappropriate in today's civil justice system" as the company was appealing a $5bn punitive damages award following a major oil tanker spill in Alaska.
Reached for comment, a spokesperson for the US fossil fuel lobby group American Petroleum Institute said: "America's oil and natural gas industry will continue to work with experts and organizations committed to advancing solutions that tackle climate change, meet growing demand and ensure continued access to affordable, reliable American energy." The Guardian also contacted BP, Exxon, Princeton and Harvard ; none were immediately available for comment.
There is some evidence that funding from oil and gas companies is associated with a more positive view of fossil fuels, the study notes. And relationships with polluting energy companies can also affect internal campus decision-making, the authors argue.
Universities that are dependent on fossil fuel funding, for instance, may be less likely to divest their endowments from the sector, said Supran.
Despite the authors' efforts, the scope of fossil fuel funding on campus remains unclear because the vast majority of university research centers do not disclose their donors publicly. One 2023 report from the non-profit Data for Progress found that fossil fuel companies donated at least $700m to 27 US universities over the past decade, but the authors noted this was almost certainly an undercount.
Universities have sometimes pushed back on calls for transparency. Years ago, one of the new study's co-authors, Emily Eaton, requested that her university in Canada disclose its fossil fuel funders; when it refused to do so, she took it to court, and in 2021 a judge ruled in her favor.
The report comes amid increasing public scrutiny of the oil sector's relationship with universities, including in an April report from US Democrats on Capitol Hill. Efforts to push academic institutions to "dissociate" from fossil fuel companies are also ramping up on campuses across the country.
"This literature review confirms what students in our movement have known for years," said Jake Lowe, executive director of Campus Climate Network, which is pressuring schools to sever ties with the industry. "Big oil has infiltrated academia in order to gain undue credibility and obstruct climate action."
To avert these conflicts in the future, Stephens said governments should provide more public funding to universities.
"More public funding could help them act in the public good," she said.
#290
A plan to create a clean electricity system by 2030 promised by Labour before the election is "immensely challenging" but still "credible" if ministers take urgent action to fix Britain's sluggish planning system, the energy system operator has said.
Britain could become a net exporter of green electricity by the end of the decade at no extra costs to the energy system under the plans and bills may even fall if ministers make the right policy changes, according to the operator.
The newly formed National Energy System Operator (Neso) put forward the conclusions as part of its official advice to new ministers on how to reach Labour election pledge to decarbonise the power system by 2030.
Fintan Slye, the chief executive of Neso, said: "There's no doubt that the challenges ahead on the journey to delivering clean power are great. However, if the scale of those challenges is matched with the bold, sustained actions that are outlined in this report, the benefits delivered could be even greater."
Labour has faced questions over whether the 2030 target can realistically be met. The Neso report said Britain's regional power networks would need to grow at a pace more than four times faster than in the past decade, while the UK's high-voltage transmission network would need to be built at twice the rate of the previous 10 years in the next five.
Neso said there would also need to be "urgent action" from the industry, regulators and government officials to reduce the time it took to consent to big projects and overhaul the planning process so that all changes could be delivered "simultaneously, in full and at maximum pace". Keir Starmer has pledged to "throw everything" at getting the UK to net zero by making sweeping changes to the planning system.
Slye said: "A clean power system for Great Britain will deliver a backbone of homegrown energy that breaks the link between volatile international gas prices; that is secure and affordably powers our homes and buildings; that decarbonises the transport that we take to school and work; that drives the businesses of today and catalyses the innovations of the future."
Neso said there were two pathways towards the government's goal that would lead to Britain generating more low-carbon electricity than it consumes each year.
The first route relies heavily on a surge of new renewable energy projects, including plans to more than triple the UK's offshore wind capacity to 50 gigawatts in the next six years.
The second path calls for lower levels of offshore wind in favour of a greater reliance on nuclear power by extending the life of existing reactors and building new ones within the six years, alongside gas plants fitted with carbon capture technology.
In both pathways the UK will need to double its onshore wind capacity from 13GW in 2023 to 27GW by 2030, and triple its solar power from 15GW to 47GW by 2030. The ambition will also require the market for flexible power demand - typically asking consumers to shift their use from times of high demand - from about 2GW last year to between 10GW and 12GW by 2030.
Under both scenarios, the UK would continue to use gas-fired power stations to generate electricity when renewable or stored electricity is unavailable - but that this would make up less than 5% of the country's power consumption.
Ed Miliband, the energy secretary, said: "This independent report provides conclusive proof that the government's clean energy superpower mission is the right choice for the country, replacing Britain's dependency on volatile fossil fuel markets with clean, homegrown power controlled in Britain.
"The government is determined to ensure the significant reforms to planning and grid we need so we can back the builders and support investors to make this once in a generation upgrade of Britain's energy infrastructure happen."
The system operator, which was formerly owned by National Grid, was tasked with setting out a blueprint to meet the government's clean energy mission by Mission Control, a new body established by Labour to oversee the decarbonisation of Britain's energy grid by 2030.
The electricity system operator was transferred from the FTSE 100 energy company into public ownership in September. In its new form it is expected to work alongside GB Energy, a public company set up by the Labour government to invest in low-carbon power, to help connect new generation projects to the electricity grid.
#291
A sleek new startup promising to 'advance the energy transition' launched earlier this month promising to "[connect] thousands of innovators across the globe to tackle difficult energy and climate challenges".
The venture, Onward, is owned by Shell, a company that brought in $28bn in profits from oil and gas last year. The company's website says it is "accelerating pathways to energy innovation", serving as a "hub for innovation, collaboration and entrepreneurialism", and creating a "compelling, evidence-based picture of the benefits of a net-zero future". Team bios include descriptions of an ideal day "in our clean energy future": kitesurfing, snorkeling and hiking.

However, despite an abundance of green imagery and language, much of platform, which until recently was called Studio X, appears to focus on improving oil and gas outcomes, an analysis by Drilled and the Guardian has found.
The site's "Projects" section is a short-term job board hosting dozens of jobs in oil and gas exploration (the hiring companies are kept anonymous). Of the five projects with available descriptions, all but one are explicitly for oil and gas production, while many more of the archived jobs on the platform also appear to be for oil and gas.
One posting asks for applicants to conduct a "coherent petroleum system assessment"; another looks for candidates able "to understand subsurface fluid resource estimates along the US Gulf Coast". Another advertises a position to map reservoirs using seismic analysis in the Nile Delta.
Projects like Onward "[allow] Shell to pretend it's helping find solutions instead of just accelerating the climate crisis", Paris Marx, a technology critic and host of the Tech Won't Save Us podcast, told Drilled.
A Shell spokesperson said: "Shell has endeavoured to be clear in communications that Studio X was set up to develop and scale up new techniques to explore for oil and gas. These fuels remain essential to the global energy system and we are proud to provide them. We have maintained that this is an important part of our business, even as we invest in the low carbon system of the future." The spokesperson added that in 2023, $5.6bn of Shell's overall capital spend, nearly a quarter of the total, was on "low carbon energy". They did not provide a breakdown of those expenditures.
Onward is just the latest of several climate tech projects by fossil fuel companies.
Shell has at least three other projects created to invest in energy startups, and in 2022, according to the company, it invested 89% more than it did the previous year in "low-carbon energy solutions".
Saudi Aramco, the world's largest oil company, has a $7bn fund and a portfolio of investments in renewables, storage, carbon capture and sequestration, and futuristic fuels like hydrogen and ammonia. Exxon, meanwhile, has plans to invest $7bn in carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and "lower-emission fuels" through 2027. In January, representatives from Shell, Chevron, SoCal Gas, BP, Southern Company, and Saudi Aramco were all on the guest list at a cleantech industry conference in San Diego.
However, many experts say these ventures are largely part of a broad greenwashing strategy.
The world's leading climate authority has said that all oil and gas exploration must cease worldwide by 2030 in order to avoid the worst impacts of the climate crisis. But even as they flaunt their involvement in climate tech and investment in climate "solutions", major fossil fuel companies are ramping up production and doing away with previous climate promises and targets. Shell is no exception: the company's new CEO, Wael Sawan, has pivoted the company away from previous climate pledges and refocused the company's efforts to invest in its gas business and keeping oil production steady, despite record profits in the first quarter of 2023.
Drilled and the Guardian sent Onward several requests for comment, including questions about which companies sponsored Onward's "Projects" listing, and whether advertising for jobs that promote continued oil and gas production runs contrary to Onward's claims of "achiev[ing] a Net Zero future". An Onward representative did not respond directly to questions but shared the company's press release on the rebrand and a press kit.
In conversations with other outlets, Onward's CEO, Jeff Allyn, said that the organization aims to help solve thorny problems, like "scope 3" emissions, with the energy transition. "The more people we have engaged with the community, the quicker we can create new and innovative solutions to the challenges we face," Allyn told Axios in February.
The emphasis on collaboration to solve the climate crisis is one that consistently crops up in oil and gas public communication, said Melissa Aronczyk, a professor of journalism and media at Rutgers University.
"Behind the idea of collaboration is the idea that everyone is an equal stakeholder in this movement, that we are all in together to combat climate change," she said. "But that's really not what's going on."
Aroczyk pointed out that at recent UN climate meetings, oil and gas companies, their lobbyists, and other polluters have been consistently invited to the table under the guise of collaboration - invitations that have enabled them to further block needed action.
"It's a Trojan horse of legitimacy," she said. "You're under cover of the idea that the climate movement is an all-hands-on-deck situation, but what you're really doing is bringing in players who have very different ideas of what it means to 'solve' the climate crisis."
This article was corrected on 28 February 2024 to clarify that Wael Sawan has focused Shell on investing in its gas business and keeping oil production steady, not boosting oil production.
#292
Excess heat produced across Europe could almost power the entire region but preventing this waste is largely being ignored as a solution to the energy crisis, say environmental experts.
"The global energy crisis is a wakeup call to stop wasting energy," said Toby Morgan, senior manager for the built environment at Climate Group, an environmental not-for-profit. "Now, more than ever, we need to make better use of the energy we already produce, we simply can't afford to let it literally escape out the window. Energy efficiency improvements, like capturing and recycling excess heat, are absolutely critical to lower fossil fuel demand and lower bills."
A report published this week by the global engineering company Danfoss estimated that in the EU alone, excess heat was equal to 2,860 TWh a year, almost the same as the EU's total energy demand for heat and hot water.
Surplus heat is released into the air from a wide range of sources, including supermarkets, transport networks, data centres and commercial buildings. Much of this can be captured and used via existing heat recovery technologies, such as heat pumps, plus more efficient air conditioners and manufacturing machinery according to the authors of the report. Other solutions include improved urban planning and district energy systems based on networks of renewable energy supplies for both heating and cooling.
Brian Vad Mathiesen, a professor in energy planning and renewable energy systems at Aalborg University, led the research cited in the report that builds on his team's previous Heat Roadmap Europe projects. "The amount of cities, regions and countries in Europe which waste heat while spending billions on natural gas or electric heating is mind-blowing," said Vad Mathiesen, warning that Europe's energy security was at stake.
"Take the Netherlands - there is virtually no district heating even though there is almost twice the amount of waste heat compared to the heat demand. Denmark is the same size but has towards 60% percent district heating with only one third of the population. The use of waste heat is certainly not connected to technical differences. While the physical laws are the same, the political will and traditions are very different."
There was "huge, unharnessed potential" to the excess heat produced by heavy industry, such as chemical manufacturing, steel and cement production. In the EU, that amounts to more than 267 TWh a year, more than the combined heat generation of Germany, Poland and Sweden in 2021.
Data centres are also major consumers of electricity. In 2020, European data centres consumed about 3.5% of the region's electricity demand, according to ReUseHeat, an EU project that explored barriers to urban heat recovery. The report highlights that the UK has an abundance of excess energy, including from 456 data centres. "That's third most in the world, just behind Germany and the US," explains Kim Fausing, the president and chief executive of Danfoss, who believes recycling heat is a crucial step towards a green transition.
"If businesses were to harness all the excess heat from these centres, the emissions savings and revenue from selling this heat would be highly significant. In Greater London, we have identified at least 648 eligible excess heat sources, including data centres, underground stations, supermarkets, wastewater treatment plants, and food production facilities. Why aren't businesses and local government organisations using these?" said Fausing, adding that London's excess heat equated to 9.5 TWh a year, roughly the amount of heat required to heat 790,000 households. "Reusing excess heat offers incredible opportunities for businesses throughout the UK to reduce their emissions, save money and make money. What are we waiting for?"
To rapidly tackle the energy crisis, Vad Mathiesen proposes a heat planning directive that enables local authorities to plan according to local conditions. This would involve mapping existing waste heat sources in greater detail, then proposing thermal networks that distribute heat more effectively and initiatives that improve energy efficiency in buildings.
"Energy efficiency needs to be a top priority for any business or government, particularly during an energy crisis," said Morgan, who advises every corporate net zero commitment to include a time-bound energy efficiency target, and for governments to incentivise the uptake of energy efficient technologies. "Energy efficiency improvements are climate critical. The time for action is now."
#293
The amount of electricity generated by the UK's gas and coal power plants fell by 20% last year, with consumption of fossil fuels at its lowest level since 1957.
Not since Harold Macmillan was the UK prime minister and the Beatles' John Lennon and Paul McCartney met for the first time has the UK used less coal and gas.
The UK's gas power plants last year generated 31% of the UK's electricity, or 98 terawatt hours (TWh), according to a report by the industry journal Carbon Brief, while the UK's last remaining coal plant produced enough electricity to meet just 1% of the UK's power demand or 4TWh.
Fossil fuels were squeezed out of the electricity system by a surge in renewable energy generation combined with higher electricity imports from France and Norway and a long-term trend of falling demand.
Higher power imports last year were driven by an increase in nuclear power from France and hydropower from Norway in 2023. This marked a reversal from 2022 when a string of nuclear outages in France helped make the UK a net exporter of electricity for the first time.
Carbon Brief found that gas and coal power plants made up just over a third of the UK's electricity supplies in 2023, while renewable energy provided the single largest source of power to the grid at a record 42%.
It was the third year this decade that renewable energy sources, including wind, solar, hydro and biomass power, outperformed fossil fuels, according to the analysis. Renewables and Britain's nuclear reactors, which generated 13% of electricity supplies last year, helped low-carbon electricity make up 55% of the UK's electricity in 2023.
Dan McGrail, the chief executive of RenewableUK, said the data shows "the central role that wind, solar and other clean power sources are consistently playing in Britain's energy transition".
"We're working closely with the government to accelerate the pace at which we build new projects and new supply chains in the face of intense global competition, as everyone is trying to replicate our success," McGrail said.
Electricity from fossil fuels was two-thirds lower in 2023 compared with its peak in 2008, according to Carbon Brief. It found that coal has dropped by 97% and gas by 43% in the last 15 years.
Coal power is expected to fall further in 2024 after the planned shutdown of Britain's last remaining coal plant in September. The Ratcliffe on Soar coal plant, owned by the German utility Uniper, is scheduled to shut before next winter after generating power for over 55 years.
Renewable energy has increased sixfold since 2008 as the UK has constructed more wind and solar farms, and the large Drax coal plant has converted some of its generating units to burn biomass pellets.
Electricity demand has tumbled by 22% since its peak in 2005, according to the data, as part of a long-term trend driven by more energy efficient homes and appliances as well as a decline in the UK's manufacturing sector.
Demand for electricity is expected to double as the UK aims to cut emissions to net zero by 2050 because the plan relies heavily on replacing fossil fuel transport and heating with electric alternatives.
In recent weeks, offshore wind developers have given the green light to another four large windfarms in UK waters, including the world's largest offshore windfarm at Hornsea 3, which will be built off the North Yorkshire coast by Denmark's Ørsted.
The German utility RWE has also agreed to buy the Norfolk Boreas, Norfolk Vanguard East and Norfolk Vanguard West from Sweden's Vattenfall in a €1bn deal that is expected to revive plans for the projects, which were derailed last year by rising supply chain costs.
#294
In the terminology of the climate and ecological crises the phrase "tipping point" is loaded with dreadful implications.
It evokes a climate breakdown supercharged by the mass escape of methane locked in Siberian permafrost, or the great currents of the oceans smothered by freshwater melting from the Greenland ice sheet, or the Amazon turning from great rainforest to parched savannah after the felling of one too many trees.
But it could come to mean something very different.
Policymakers could tip the world into a series of "positive tipping points", accelerating the switch from fossil fuels to clean energy sources, by simply introducing mandates requiring key sectors to make the change, a report claims.
The researchers say such "regulatory mandates with specific timeframes" could stipulate that certain industries make a rising share of sales of clean technologies or phase out the most polluting fuels.
Once reached, these tipping points could trigger benevolent cascades in related sectors, with each accelerating the others down the path of a low-carbon transition, while simultaneously slashing prices for consumers.
It is an idea with urgency behind it. Experts say global CO2 emissions must be halved by 2030 if the world is to have any hope of limiting the global temperature rise to 1.5C, beyond which devastating impacts are expected. Meanwhile emissions are still rising.
Prof Tim Lenton from the Global Systems Institute (GSI) at the University of Exeter, which is behind the research, said: "With the world off course to meet the Paris agreement climate goals, triggering positive tipping points is now the only credible way to limit global warming well below 2C (3.7F) above preindustrial levels.
"We need a rapid transformation in our economies and society that dramatically cuts prices and carbon emissions. Focusing on positive tipping points benefits consumers, taxpayers, businesses and people around the world facing the worst impacts of climate change."
What the latest research shows is that, of all the possible government interventions, mandates are the most effective way to push industries towards such tipping points.
Using data from more than 70 countries, including all the big carbon emitters, GSI's researchers used modelling to predict the impact of different kinds of government interventions - taxation, subsidies and regulatory mandates - in encouraging decarbonisation in energy generation, heating, and light and heavy road transport.
The modelling simulated how investors or consumers choose between technologies based on availability, cost and historical preferences.
The study found taxation - hitherto the most commonly used policy - to be the weakest intervention, while regulatory mandates had the biggest impact, quickly leading adoption of clean technologies to levels that triggered positive tipping points in related industries.
Four such mandates were assessed and are recommended by the report, including: phasing out coal power by 2035 for developed countries and by 2045 for developing countries; requiring a rising proportion of heating appliance sales to be heat pumps from 2025, reaching 100% by 2035; requiring a rising proportion of car sales to be zero-emission vehicles, reaching 100% by 2035; and requiring a rising proportion of truck sales to be zero-emission vehicles, reaching 100% by 2040.
"We found that policies to advance the low-carbon transition in any one of these sectors will help bring forward the tipping point in the other three," said Simon Sharpe, a co-author of the study and the director of S-Curve Economics, a nonprofit research organisation.
"For example, increased use of clean electricity or energy storage in one sector drives innovation and brings down the cost of these technologies, enabling faster transitions in the other sectors. In addition, the increasing electrification of heating and transport provides new options for balancing the power system, reducing the cost of clean power."
The paper also identifies "super-leverage points" with the greatest potential to trigger cascades of positive change. Dr Femke Nijsse, the lead author of the study, said: "The zero-emission mandate for cars shows the best potential for a 'super-leverage point' for the global transition.
"This policy not only has the highest effect within its own sector, but also has a significant positive influence on the transition in other sectors. Coal power phase-out is also a super-leverage point, bringing forward positive tipping points in the heating and heavy road transport sectors by up to four years in some countries."
The UK is preparing to close its last coal-fired power station, at Ratcliffe-on-Soar in Nottinghamshire, at the end of this month, which will make it the first G7 country to phase out coal power.
Lenton said: "Mandates are clearly the most effective policy approach - and we call on policymakers worldwide to implement them at speed. Failure to do so will have high human and economic costs."
#295
China is shoring up its position as the world leader in renewable power and potentially outpacing its own ambitious energy targets, a report has found.
China is set to double its capacity and produce 1,200 gigawatts of energy through wind and solar power by 2025, reaching its 2030 goal five years ahead of time, according to the report by Global Energy Monitor, a San Francisco-based NGO that tracks operating utility-scale wind and solar farms as well as future projects in the country.
It says that as of the first quarter of the year, China's utility-scale solar capacity has reached 228GW, more than that of the rest of the world combined. The installations are concentrated in the country's north and north-west provinces, such as Shanxi, Xinjiang and Hebe 
In addition, the group identified solar farms under construction that could add another 379GW in prospective capacity, triple that of the US and nearly double that of Europe.
China has also made huge strides in wind capacity: its combined onshore and offshore capacity now surpasses 310GW, double its 2017 level and roughly equivalent to the next top seven countries combined. With new projects in Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang, Gansu and along coastal areas, China is on course to add another 371GW before 2025, increasing the global wind fleet by nearly half.
"This new data provides unrivalled granularity about China's jaw-dropping surge in solar and wind capacity," said Dorothy Mei, a project manager at Global Energy Monitor. "As we closely monitor the implementation of prospective projects, this detailed information becomes indispensable in navigating the country's energy landscape."
The findings are in line with previous reports and government data released this year, which predicted that China could easily surpass its target of supplying a third of its power consumption through renewable sources by 2030.
China's green energy drive is part of its effort to meet dual carbon goals set out in 2020. As the world's second largest economy, it is the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases and accounts for half of the world's coal consumption. The Chinese president, Xi Jinping, pledged in 2020 to achieve peak CO2 emissions before 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060.
The report attributed China's remarkable progress in expanding its non-fossil energy sources to the range of policies its government has implemented, including generous subsidies to incentivise developers as well as regulations to put pressure on provincial governments and generating companies.
China began operating the world's largest hybrid solar-hydro power plant in the Tibetan plateau on Sunday. Named Kela, the plant can produce 2bn kW hours of electricity annually, equal to the energy consumption of more than 700,000 households.
It is only the first phase of a massive clean energy project in the Yalong River basin. The installation has a 20GW capacity now and is expected to reach about 50GW by 2030.
Despite China's careful planning, its energy transition is not without its challenges. In recent years, record heatwaves and drought crippled hydropower stations, resulting in power crunches that brought factories to a halt. An outdated electricity grid and inflexibility in transferring energy between regions add to the uncertainty.
The Kela plant is located in the sparsely populated west of the country, where more than three-quarters of coal, wind and solar power is generated. But the vast majority of energy consumption happens in the east. Transporting energy thousands of miles across the country results in inefficiencies.
The way China's grid is organised can incentivise building coal plants around renewable generators. Much of the new renewable capacity is not connected to the local energy supply and often bundled with coal power to be transmitted to areas of higher demand.
More coal power was approved in the first three months of 2023 than in the whole of 2021.
"China is making strides," said Martin Weil, a researcher at Global Energy Monitor and an author of the report. "But with coal still holding sway as the dominant power source, the country needs bolder advancements in energy storage and green technologies for a secure energy future."
#296
The emissions from burning oil and gas produced by the world's leading fossil fuel companies could cause millions of excess heat deaths before the end of the century, according to a new analysis.
The study from Global Witness found that the combined emissions from fossil fuels produced by Shell, BP, TotalEnergies, ExxonMobil and Chevron up to 2050 could result in 11.5 million excess deaths from heat by 2100.
The findings represent the first attempt to quantify heat deaths resulting from planned oil production by big oil and add weight to calls to drastically reduce fossil fuel extraction.
Sarah Biermann Becker, senior investigator at Global Witness, said: "Every 0.1C of warming will be lethal. Unless the supermajors change course quickly, the death toll will be comparable to some of history's most brutal wars. We cannot leave it up to them. Governments need to step in, mitigate the impact of extreme heat and urgently ramp up the transition away from fossil fuels."
The report used the mortality cost of carbon model devised by academics at Columbia University and used by Oxfam - among others. It calculates that in a high emissions scenario - which is predicted to happen to the climate if no further concerted action is taken to rapidly reduce warming - there will be 226 excess heat deaths worldwide for every million tonnes of carbon released.
It then used data from leading analysts Rystad Energy to calculate projected emissions from fossil fuels produced by the oil firms. It calculated that together they would add 51bn tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions to the atmosphere by 2050. Based on the high emissions scenario that would result in 11.5 million excess heat deaths by the end of the century.
The analysis found that if the world managed a lower emissions scenario, reaching net zero globally by 2050, excess deaths associated with the companies' production would come to about 5.5 million people.
Intense and deadly heatwaves have hit almost every continent over the past few years, sparking wildfires and causing hundreds of thousands of excess deaths. In Europe, searing heat killed more than 60,000 people in 2022 and heat-related deaths rose by 95% in the US between 2010 and 2022.
Heat often hits the poorest and most vulnerable members of each society hardest, with the homeless, those who work outside and the elderly most at risk.
Shouro Dasgupta, an environmental economist at the Euro-Mediterranean Center on Climate Change, said action needed to be taken to protect the most vulnerable.
"We're already seeing the impacts of heat stress on workers around the world, particularly on people in outdoor or heavy-duty industries such as agriculture and construction.
"This will likely get much worse as the planet continues to heat up. We need labour protection policies that are tailored to local needs rather than a one-size-fits-all approach. This isn't just a moral question - it's also in the economic interests of employers to provide adequate protection for their workers."
Experts point out that heat deaths will be just one result of a failure to rapidly transition away from fossil fuels alongside other disasters such as food shortages, flooding and political and economic turmoil.
The big oil corporations continue to invest billions in new oil and gas reserves and BP and Shell have recently weakened their climate pledges.
In response to Wednesday's analysis, TotalEnergies said it was continuing to invest in new oil projects to offset the "natural decline" in existing production in order to meet expanding global demand.
Along with Shell and BP, it said it was investing in renewable and low-carbon energy to support a just transition to a low-carbon energy system.
BP added that since it had not set out its oil and gas production beyond 2030, predictions based on its plans to 2050 were invalid.
BP and Shell said they had made progress in reducing emissions from their operations. Shell questioned some of the methodology used in the analysis.
A spokesperson for Shell added: "The pace of transition depends on action in many areas, including government policy, changing customer demand and investment in low-carbon energy. Our aim is to play our part in a balanced energy transition, where the world achieves net zero emissions without compromising on delivery of secure and affordable energy, which has improved so many lives, and which people will continue to need today and for many years to come."
Exxon and Chevron did not respond to requests for comment.
#297
The oil and gas industry has delivered $2.8bn (£2.3bn) a day in pure profit for the last 50 years, a new analysis has revealed.
The vast total captured by petrostates and fossil fuel companies since 1970 is $52tn, providing the power to "buy every politician, every system" and delay action on the climate crisis, says Prof Aviel Verbruggen, the author of the analysis. The huge profits were inflated by cartels of countries artificially restricting supply.
The analysis, based on World Bank data, assesses the "rent" secured by global oil and gas sales, which is the economic term for the unearned profit produced after the total cost of production has been deducted.
The study has yet to be published in an academic journal but three experts at University College London, the London School of Economics and the thinktank Carbon Tracker confirmed the analysis as accurate, with one calling the total a "staggering number". It appears to be the first long-term assessment of the sector's total profits, with oil rents providing 86% of the total.
Emissions from the burning of fossil fuels have driven the climate crisis and contributed to worsening extreme weather, including the current heatwaves hitting the UK and many other Northern hemisphere countries. Oil companies have known for decades that carbon emissions were dangerously heating the planet.
"I was really surprised by such high numbers - they are enormous," said Verbruggen, an energy and environmental economist at the University of Antwerp, Belgium, and a former lead author of an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report.
"It's a huge amount of money," he said. "You can buy every politician, every system with all this money, and I think this happened. It protects [producers] from political interference that may limit their activities."
The rents captured by exploiting the natural resources are unearned, Verbruggen said: "It's real, pure profit. They captured 1% of all the wealth in the world without doing anything for it." The average annual profit from 1970-2020 was $1tn but he said he expected this to be twice as high in 2022.
Sign up to First Edition, our free daily newsletter - every weekday morning at 7am BST
The profit-grabbing is holding back the world's action on the climate emergency, he said: "It's really stripping money from the alternatives. In every country, people have so much difficulty just to pay the gas and electricity bills and oil [petrol] bill, that we don't have money left over to invest in renewables."
Some of the rents go to governments as royalties, says Prof Paul Ekins, at University College London: "But the fact remains that, over the last 50 years, companies have made a huge amount of money by producing fossil fuels, the burning of which is the major cause of climate change. This is already causing untold misery round the world and is a major threat to future human civilisation.
"At the very least these companies should be investing a far greater share of their profits in moving to low-carbon energy than is currently the case. Until they do so their claims of being part of the low-carbon energy transition are among the most egregious examples of greenwashing."
Mark Campanale, at Carbon Tracker, said: "Not only is the scale of these rents eye-watering, but it is salient to note that, in the midst of a cost of living crisis caused by record oil and gas prices, this flow of money to a relatively small number of petrostates and energy companies is set to double this year. Shifting to a carbon-neutral energy system based on renewables is the only way to end this madness."
The Guardian revealed in May that the world's biggest fossil fuel firms are planning scores of "carbon bomb" oil and gas projects that would drive the climate past internationally agreed temperature limits with catastrophic global impacts. The fossil fuel industry also benefits from subsidies of $16bn a day, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Verbruggen's analysis used the World Bank's oil rent and gas rent data, which the bank compiles country-by-country and is expressed as percentage of global GDP. He then multiplied this by the World Bank's global GDP data and adjusted for inflation to put all the figures in 2020 US dollars.
Verbruggen said oil-rich nations, such as Russia and those in the OPEC cartel, including Saudi Arabia, kept rents high by restricting supply: "They change the fundamentals of the markets." Military action, such as the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, and political action, such as the embargo on oil exports from Iran, had also increased the rents, he said. If all available oil and gas could be freely supplied to the market, the price of conventional oil would be $20-30 a barrel, Verbruggen said, compared with about $100 today.
There is far more oil, gas and coal in existing reserves than can be burned if the world is to limit global heating to 1.5C, the target agreed by nations in the Paris climate agreement in 2015. Campanale said: "To keep to 1.5C, this means [international oil companies alone] forgoing around $100 trillion of potential revenues. You can see why oil oligarchs and nations controlled by political elites want to keep their fossil fuel rents, the source of their power."
May Boeve, the head of campaign group 350.org, said: "These profits have enabled the fossil fuel industry to combat all efforts to switch our energy systems. We have to dismantle such rent-seeking systems and build our future based on accessible and distributed renewable energy that is more sustainable and democratic in every way."
#298
The chief executive of British Gas owner Centrica has warned that more energy suppliers could go bust this winter - with million of pounds of taxpayer cash on their balance sheets.
Chris O'Shea said he believed that some suppliers were "poorly capitalised", and risked going bust and "taking taxpayer money with them".
Under the Energy Price Guarantee, introduced by Liz Truss, energy suppliers are handed government money upfront to cover the difference between wholesale energy costs and the EPG, which keeps typical household bills at about £2,500.
O'Shea told the Guardian "We've got these poorly capitalised companies, there's a risk if you give them extra money in advance. What happens if there's another failure and they take taxpayers money with them? Our view is that we should be responsible for administering the government schemes and they should reimburse us after we've uncovered the expenditure."
A spike in the wholesale price of gas exposed the weak balance sheets of almost 30 suppliers since the start of the energy crisis last year.
O'Shea said he believes "we will see some supplier failures" this winter and that some companies may be trading while technically insolvent.
He has argued that energy suppliers should have tougher rules on the amount of cash they hold and that customers' deposits should be ringfenced. Energy regulator Ofgem ignored the latter call last week.
It is understood O'Shea wrote to the chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, before the EPG was implemented asking for suppliers to be paid in arrears.
O'Shea was speaking at the Easington gas terminal near Hull on the east Yorkshire coast, which began processing new gas injected into the huge Rough offshore storage site in the North Sea on Tuesday for the first time since 2017. Easington, which can process 20% of Britain's peak gas needs, is where gas from Rough is brought on shore and put into the grid.
Low wind and solar activity in the UK on Tuesday meant that the vast undersea cavern was called into action amid jitters over Britain's energy capacity this winter.
Centrica has reopened the site for gas storage at 20% of its previous capacity after a request from the government earlier this year. The use of the site for storage was deemed uneconomic in 2017, and it has been used as a production facility for natural gas since.
Centrica has been discussing making a £150m investment to double the gas storage in Rough to 60bn cubic feet by next winter with the government.
O'Shea said the company was also prepared to invest up to £2bn to convert the Rough facility to hold hydrogen in as little as five years with a funding mechanism that would guarantee revenues if wholesale prices dropped.
"We're looking for the right regulator framework that supports the investment to make sure that the returns justify the £2bn," he said.
As the government confirmed its investment in the Sizewell C nuclear power station in Suffolk, O'Shea reiterated the company's interest in the £30bn project. Centrica has a 20% stake in Britain's existing nuclear fleet, which is run by Sizewell C developer EDF.
"We need to see the terms of that deal [between government and EDF]. We're a partner in Sizewell B. Once we've seen the terms we'll discuss that as a board. It's in line with our strategy - it's zero-carbon electricity generation," O'Shea said.
Asked about the impact of the toughened windfall tax on oil and gas and a new levy on electricity generators, O'Shea said: "We will review our investments based on the factors in play just now, but you also have to take a view of the risk of those things changing and undoubtedly that is heightened at the moment given what we've seen in the past few months."
#299

Labour will promise to take the lead on global efforts to tackle the climate crisis, filling a "vacuum of leadership" on the world stage and proving Rishi Sunak's U-turn on net zero has been a "historic mistake", Ed Miliband has said.
The shadow energy security and net zero secretary said the UK needed to change course and was "off track".
Labour drew widespread criticism earlier this year from economists, industrial leaders and environmental campaigners when it cut its green investment plans by half, rolling back on a pledge to spend £28bn equipping the economy to reach its climate target.
It has also been locked in combat with the Tories over the costs and benefits of a green transition and has given way in certain key areas. Miliband has pledged to stick with the Tories' decision to scrap a ban on gas boiler sales from 2035.
But Miliband says his party would put climate front and centre of its plans in government, promising to reverse the ban on onshore wind in the immediate days after parliament returns after the election.
He said it was also a chance to fundamentally change course on climate and to make that case on the world stage.
"We have taken the manifesto position we have because we think it is the right thing now," he said in an interview with the Guardian. "But it is also right that we fill the vacuum of leadership on this issue.
"We now have a government that is explicitly going along with the climate delayers. We have to change course as a country and as a world. And this election is an opportunity for us to change course."
Miliband is to become one of the most influential figures in the expected next Labour government and one of very few with direct cabinet experience. He said that climate was the front line in the battle against the populist right across the world.
"If we win, we will seize the moment," he said. "There is not a minute to waste in the drive for 2030 clean power and in the drive for climate action. The world is off track, Britain is off track and we intend to change that direction."
There is a growing awareness within Labour of the scale of the party's task internationally in the coming years, with the potential loss of progressive allies on climate issues in governments such as France, Canada and the US.
The former party leader said a Labour government would take on that mantle of climate leadership, should it win the election. "You only get to lead internationally if you set the right example at home," he said.
"If we win the election, it will send a message round the world that the approach we are taking on clean energy, our argument on bills, independence, jobs and future generations, you can win an election on that argument."
Labour has avoided getting into direct conflict with the Green party, which is outflanking Labour on most climate pledges and targeting seats against Labour in Bristol Central and in Brighton Pavillion.
But Miliband said his experience from the 2015 election taught him not to believe the polls - and that in seats with wafer-thin majorities a vote for small parties would risk allowing the Conservatives back in. "Do not vote Green and wake up with a Tory government," he said.
And he also said he would not defend the actions of climate protesters like Just Stop Oil, accusing them of being part of breaking the consensus on climate and being "deeply counterproductive".
Though there was a right to peaceful protest, he said, "I think all the evidence is that it turns people off the cause."
Miliband said there had been huge damage done by the Conservatives to the climate consensus in Britain since the UK hosted Cop26 in Glasgow in 2021. Net zero has been a major battleground on the right and Sunak announced a dilution of green policies last autumn including moving back the ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel cars.
Miliband said voters could chose to give their endorsement to tackling climate action on Thursday. "This is a moment to show that the Conservative party and Rishi Sunak made a historic mistake by trying to break the climate consensus in this country," he said.
"This is the most important climate election in history - we are halfway through the decisive decade. The next government will serve for most of the rest of this decade. This is the biggest choice in our history on this," he said.
In February, Labour cut its green investment plans by half and pledged only £15bn a year for its green prosperity plan - only a third of which would be new money.
The U-turn dismayed many business leaders and green campaigners, who said that without green investment on a larger scale the UK faced steep decline as a result of crumbling infrastructure and that energy targets would be difficult to hit.
Jürgen Maier, the former UK head of Siemens, the German industrial giant and major investor, said massive investment was needed to rebuild the UK economy and make it fit for the future.
Before the cut was announced he warned: "These are the growth areas of the future. The £28bn is not a cost, it's an investment. If you make this investment, business will return to the UK."
At the time Areeba Hamid, the co-executive director of Greenpeace UK, said the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, had "caved like a house of cards in the wind".
Emma Pinchbeck, the chief executive of Energy UK, the trade association for the energy industry, said the issue was less the actual sum spent than "the signal it sends".
Speaking after the cut, she said: "The party has been engaging constructively with business over recent months, but retaining the confidence of the market is dependent on not making U-turns that damage the UK's investability."
But Miliband insisted it remained the "most ambitious plan for climate and energy in our national history" and said the party was committed to clean power by 2030, no new oil and gas licences, a warm homes plan and a national wealth fund to rebuild industrial heartlands.
"We are seeking a mandate in this election for that agenda, it's a mandate for economic change and it's a mandate to tackle climate change," he said.
"We will make the modern, progressive, big tent case for climate action which does the right thing now. Rishi Sunak may have departed the pitch but I don't think the British public have."
Research by More in Common has suggest Labour's plan for Great British Energy is one of the main public cut-through policies - along with the Tories' plans for national service.
While there have been concerns the project would be merely an investment vehicle akin to George Osborne's Green Investment Bank, Miliband said it would be a generator of clean energy.
"It speaks to the sense we should own and invest in our own infrastructure," he said. "And it speaks to a sense of a loss of control that we saw in the two years of our cost of living crisis that we have no control over fossil fuel markets governed by dictators like Putin."
Miliband said that the Tory narrative on the cost of net zero could be disproved by the action Labour would take to cut bills.
"The truth is that we can beat the political right, the anti-climate right on this," he said.
"Take the onshore wind ban: the Resolution Foundation has shown that the ban hits the poorest six times harder than the rich. Their opposition to clean energy is driving up poverty and energy bills."
#300

National Grid has tapped shareholders for nearly £7bn to fund a £60bn spending spree to upgrade its networks to cope with the switch to low-carbon energy on either side of the Atlantic.
The energy infrastructure company announced a £6.8bn rights issue - where existing shareholders are offered new shares - to provide fresh funds for investment in thousands of miles of cables to connect homes with renewable energy projects in the UK and the US.
The company said nearly £60bn - to be spent between 2024 and 2029 - represented a "significant step-up" in investment, and double the figure of the previous five-year period.
The plan includes £23bn spent in energy transmission in the UK to help expand offshore wind projects, as well as £8bn on "asset replacement, reinforcement and new connections". It will spend a further £28bn ($35bn) in the US.
Earlier this year, the group's electricity system operator estimated that £54bn would need to be spent between now and 2030, and a further £58bn in the following five years, to meet government decarbonisation targets. The spending will add £20-£30 to customer bills.
John Pettigrew, National Grid's chief executive, said the fresh investment would add "single digit pounds" to bills, with the cost recovered over a period of up to 60 years. The switch away from gas-generated electricity to renewables would also reduce costs, "so ultimately, the overall bill to consumers will come down", he said.
National Grid said the fund would be spent on "critical energy infrastructure in the UK and US in support of the energy transition and economic growth objectives" but did not identify which projects it would invest in.
However, projects announced under its "Great Grid Upgrade" plan last year are likely to receive funds. These include a proposal for two offshore high voltage electricity links between Scotland and England and a planned project to upgrade existing power lines in East Anglia and Essex.
Pettigrew said: "As economies become increasingly digital, electrified and decarbonised, the need for energy infrastructure has rarely been more pressing.
"Our investment will unlock significant economic growth and, by the end of the decade, National Grid is expected to support over 60,000 more jobs, while also decarbonising our energy systems, bolstering security of supply, and reducing consumer bills in the long term."
In the US, the firm is spending $4bn on an "upstate upgrade", involving more than 70 projects to modernise the network north and west of New York City.
The £60bn investment plan will be funded by the largest rights issue in Europe for 15 years outside the banking sector, by tapping the debt markets, and by selling its liquified natural gas terminal on the Isle of Grain, east of London. It also plans to sell its US onshore wind and solar business, but remains interested investing in US offshore wind projects.
The spending on Britain's electricity network will draw fresh focus on Labour and the Conservatives' energy transition plans. The government has committed to decarbonise the electricity grid by 2035 and Labour by 2030. Pettigrew said the two sets of plans were "ambitious" and the company was speaking to both parties.
Separately, the network company said its pre-tax profits had fallen by 15% to £3bn in the year to 31 March. Its board recommended a £2.17bn dividend.
Simon Francis, coordinator of the End Fuel Poverty Coalition, said: "The energy network and transmission firms, like National Grid, have hidden out of the headlines for too long. The huge profits being generated by these firms are paid for off the backs of people living in fuel poverty."
#301
The president of Cop28, Sultan Al Jaber, has claimed there is "no science" indicating that a phase-out of fossil fuels is needed to restrict global heating to 1.5C, the Guardian and the Centre for Climate Reporting can reveal.
Al Jaber also said a phase-out of fossil fuels would not allow sustainable development "unless you want to take the world back into caves".
The comments were "incredibly concerning" and "verging on climate denial", scientists said, and they were at odds with the position of the UN secretary general, António Guterres.
Al Jaber made the comments in ill-tempered responses to questions from Mary Robinson, the chair of the Elders group and a former UN special envoy for climate change, during a live online event on 21 November. As well as running Cop28 in Dubai, Al Jaber is also the chief executive of the United Arab Emirates' state oil company, Adnoc, which many observers see as a serious conflict of interest.
Cop28 president refuses to commit to phasing out fossil fuels - video
More than 100 countries already support a phase-out of fossil fuels and whether the final Cop28 agreement calls for this or uses weaker language such as "phase-down" is one of the most fiercely fought issues at the summit and may be the key determinant of its success. Deep and rapid cuts are needed to bring fossil fuel emissions to zero and limit fast-worsening climate impacts.
Al Jaber spoke with Robinson at a She Changes Climate event. Robinson said: "We're in an absolute crisis that is hurting women and children more than anyone ... and it's because we have not yet committed to phasing out fossil fuel. That is the one decision that Cop28 can take and in many ways, because you're head of Adnoc, you could actually take it with more credibility."
Al Jaber said: "I accepted to come to this meeting to have a sober and mature conversation. I'm not in any way signing up to any discussion that is alarmist. There is no science out there, or no scenario out there, that says that the phase-out of fossil fuel is what's going to achieve 1.5C."
Robinson challenged him further, saying: "I read that your company is investing in a lot more fossil fuel in the future." Al Jaber responded: "You're reading your own media, which is biased and wrong. I am telling you I am the man in charge."
Al Jaber then said: "Please help me, show me the roadmap for a phase-out of fossil fuel that will allow for sustainable socioeconomic development, unless you want to take the world back into caves."
"I don't think [you] will be able to help solve the climate problem by pointing fingers or contributing to the polarisation and the divide that is already happening in the world. Show me the solutions. Stop the pointing of fingers. Stop it," Al Jaber said.
Guterres told Cop28 delegates on Friday: "The science is clear: The 1.5C limit is only possible if we ultimately stop burning all fossil fuels. Not reduce, not abate. Phase out, with a clear timeframe."
Bill Hare, the chief executive of Climate Analytics, said: "This is an extraordinary, revealing, worrying and belligerent exchange. 'Sending us back to caves' is the oldest of fossil fuel industry tropes: it's verging on climate denial."
"Al Jaber is asking for a 1.5C roadmap - anyone who cares can find that in the International Energy Agency's latest net zero emissions scenario, which says there cannot be any new fossil fuel development. The science is absolutely clear [and] that absolutely means a phase-out by mid-century, which will enhance the lives of all of humanity."
Prof Sir David King, the chair of the Climate Crisis Advisory Group and a former UK chief scientific adviser, said: "It is incredibly concerning and surprising to hear the Cop28 president defend the use of fossil fuels. It is undeniable that to limit global warming to 1.5C we must all rapidly reduce carbon emissions and phase-out the use of fossil fuels by 2035 at the latest. The alternative is an unmanageable future for humanity."
Dr Friederike Otto, of Imperial College London, UK, said: "The science of climate change has been clear for decades: we need to stop burning fossil fuels. A failure to phase out fossil fuels at Cop28 will put several millions more vulnerable people in the firing line of climate change. This would be a terrible legacy for Cop28."
Otto also rejected the claim that fossil fuels were necessary for development in poorer countries, saying that the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change "shows that the UN's sustainable development goals are not achievable by continuing the current fossil-driven high emission economies. [There are] massive co-benefits that come with changing to a fossil-free world".
A spokesperson for Cop28 said: "The IEA and IPCC 1.5C scenarios clearly state that fossil fuels will have to play a role in the future energy system, albeit a smaller one. The Cop president was quoting the science, and leading climate experts.
"He has clearly said that the oil and gas industry must tackle scope 1 and 2 emissions [from their operations], must invest in clean energy and clean technologies to address scope 3 emissions [from burning fuels], and that all industry must align around keeping the north star of 1.5C within reach.
"Once again, this is clearly part of a continued effort to undermine the Cop presidency's tangible achievements and a misrepresentation of our position and successes to date."
The spokesperson said the presidency had operationalised the loss and damage fund with more than $700m, launched a $30bn private market climate vehicle, and brought 51 oil companies to agree decarbonisation targets and 119 countries to sign a pledge to triple renewable energy. "This is just the beginning," the spokesperson said.
Al Jaber is also head of Masdar, the UAE's renewable energy company, but his appointment as Cop28 president has been controversial. Shortly before the summit, leaked documents showed that the UAE had planned to use climate meetings with governments to promote oil and gas deals. Al Jaber denied having seen or used the talking points in the documents. Adnoc also has the largest net-zero-busting expansion plans for oil and gas, according to independent analysis.
The issue of a phase-out or phase-down is complicated by the terms not having agreed definitions and by the highly uncertain role of technologies to "abate" emissions, such as carbon capture and storage. "Keeping the Paris agreement targets alive will require a full fossil fuel phase-out, not a vague phase-down relying on unproven technologies," said Otto.
More than 100 African, European, Pacific and Caribbean countries back a phase-out of unabated fossil fuels. The US, the world's biggest oil and gas producer, also backs a phase-out. Others, such as Russia, Saudi Arabia and China, reject the call. Both options are on the table at Cop28, as well as proposals to only mention coal, or to not say anything at all about fossil fuels.
Cop26 in Glasgow in 2021 agreed for the first time to "phase down" coal use, but this had been watered down from "phase out" at the last minute, bringing the Cop26 president, Alok Sharma, to tears.
In his conversation with Robinson, Al Jaber also said: "A phase-down and a phase-out of fossil fuel in my view is inevitable. That is essential. But we need to be real serious and pragmatic about it."
"Hold on. Let me just explain," he said. "The world will continue to need energy sources. We [UAE] are the only ones in the world today that have been decarbonising the oil and gas resources. We have the lowest carbon intensity."
This refers to the emissions from the energy used to extract fossil fuels, not the far larger emissions from burning the fuels. "There is no such thing as 'low carbon' or 'lower carbon' oil and gas," said Otto.
Numerous commentators have said that negative or embarrassing revelations about Al Jaber and Adnoc increase the pressure on him to deliver a strong Cop28 deal. The Guardian reported recently that state-run UAE oil and gas fields had been flaring gas almost daily despite having committed 20 years ago to a policy of zero routine flaring.
The Guardian previously reported that Adnoc had been able to read emails to and from the Cop28 office until the Guardian raised the issue in June and that the UAE had also failed to report its oil industry's emissions of the powerful greenhouse gas methane.
Harjeet Singh, at Climate Action Network, said: "Cop28 must deliver a decision on phasing out fossil fuels in a just and equitable manner, without any loopholes or escape routes for the industry to continue expanding and exacerbating the climate crisis."
#302

America's renewable energy drive needs more than a million miles of new transmission lines but emerging resistance includes opponents worried about building them in one of the country's richest areas of ice-age fossils.
The Greenlink West project would build a 470-mile-long transmission line bringing clean electricity north of Las Vegas to Reno in Nevada, but it cuts through an area containing everything from woolly mammoth tusks to giant sloths to ancient camels.
The pushback has highlighted a major, and growing, challenge to Joe Biden's attempts to expand clean energy in order to tackle the climate crisis - how to quickly build vast new networks of electricity transmission across America without falling afoul of local communities and green groups.
If the US is to eliminate planet-heating emissions by 2050 it will need to increase the capacity of its current 700,000 circuit-mile network of poles and wires by threefold, researchers have estimated, in order to electrify key components of everyday life and shift intermittent wind and solar energy to areas where the sun isn't shining or wind isn't blowing.
The nascent stages of this gargantuan effort, the scale of which hasn't been seen since the US built out its highway system in the 1950s, is already facing opposition from various conservation groups, locals and fossil fuel interests from New England to the Arizona desert.
"Transmission is contentious because it's long, it's linear, so it affects a lot of people," said Jessica Wilkinson, North America renewable energy team lead at the Nature Conservancy. "We are seeing local concerns being raised and they are growing as these projects increase in size. It's all new to people."
Suddenly, as lawmakers jostle over ways to speed up new projects, local opposition seems likely to grow. "It's only been energy nerds like me into this, most people haven't really thought about it," said Tim Latimer, chief executive of Fervo Energy, a developer of geothermal projects.
"But this is the next big barrier to renewables. There really is no transition without transmission."
Those committed to preventing the defilement of valued landscapes are now placed in a conundrum where an unprecedented amount of infrastructure development is needed to protect those landscapes, as well as people, from global heating.
Sherri Grotheer, president of the Protectors of Tule Springs Fossil Beds, said that she is "very concerned" about climate crisis but that she wanted federal authorities to come up with an alternative route for Greenlink than slicing through the Nevada monument, which could disturb fossils that are hundreds of thousands of years old.
"Sometimes kneejerk reactions can cause unintended consequences and we know there are innumerable fossils left here, there is evidence of fossils everywhere just under the surface," she said of Tule Springs, a 23,000-acre monument situated north of Las Vegas protected for its fossils under the auspices of the National Park Service since 2014.
"It's one of the most significant fossil sites in the continental US and maybe beyond," said Grotheer. "It's just very cool. I just want them to look at alternative routes. There is also the concern of putting projects like this in national parks, because then you think 'where does this end?'"
For developers of renewable energy projects, however, the lack of transmission capacity is a major headache. Even as clean energy projects have gathered pace, turbocharged by last year's $370bn in climate spending via the Inflation Reduction Act, they face frustrating waits to be connected to a fragmented, congested electricity grid.
I can't tell you how many places we've seen and thought, 'Wow, the geology is excellent for geothermal, but we just can't get the transmission'
Tim Latimer
The typical wait is now nearly four years, with much longer delays than this experienced by some companies. While the tap of new funding for renewables is now gushing, it risks being wasted due to the lack of a metaphorical hosepipe.
The US Department of Energy has said there is a "pressing need" for new infrastructure, with California alone needing to add more than $9bn-worth of new transmission to avoid rolling power blackouts as wildfires and other climate-driven disruptions mount.
By 2050 - in this scenario with high-electrification - the US would need to increase its transmission capacity to three times the 2020 level.
"We need to solve this problem if we are going to deal with climate change," said Latimer. Fervo has been able to establish geothermal projects in Utah and Nevada - tapping into the steam from underground heat to spin turbines - but Latimer said other opportunities have been hampered by the lack of grid opportunities.
"I can't tell you how many places we've seen and thought, 'Wow, the geology is excellent for geothermal, but we just can't get the transmission,'" he said.
"It's difficult to get private finance for something where you can't get revenues for nine more years, so you just give up. The system is gummed up but that is just the tip of the iceberg because many people don't even try to get a spot in the line."
Wilkinson said that smart planning can avoid disturbing valued landscapes and help reduce this tension. A recent report she co-authored found that while an area the size of Texas is needed for new renewable projects and their power lines in the US, this can be shrunk by more than half if sited in an efficient way, avoiding sensitive habitats and prized cropland.
"We have the dual crises of climate change and biodiversity loss and there is an assumption we will need to trade off a lot on the nature side to fix climate change, but that's not the case," she said. "Time is of the essence, we need to transition to renewables quickly, but there is a way to do it smartly that can balance conservation and development."
Congress is now grappling with how to speed up the permitting of new transmission projects, as part of the negotiations over the debt ceiling.
Republicans and Joe Manchin, the centrist Democrat senator, want to weaken environmental impact reviews of new developments, a prospect that environmental groups are wary of as an avenue for fossil fuel projects such as the Mountain Valley Pipeline, a gas project championed by Manchin that gained a key approval from the Biden administration earlier this month.
The White House, meanwhile, has indicated it supports expedited permitting, but not a wholesale watering down of environmental laws. "Right now, the permitting process for clean energy infrastructure, including transmission, is plagued by delays and bottlenecks," admitted John Podesta, a senior Biden climate adviser, in a speech last week.
Podesta said he recently learned that a transmission line he thought was approved under Barack Obama's presidency still hadn't been resolved. "That's unacceptable," he said. "We got so good at stopping projects that we forgot how to build things in America."
#303
Up to a third of Africa's great apes are threatened by a boom in mining projects for minerals required for the renewable energy transition, new research shows.
An estimated 180,000 gorillas, bonobos and chimpanzees are at risk due to an increase in demand for critical minerals such as copper, lithium, nickel and cobalt, a study has found. Many of those minerals are required for clean energy technologies such as wind turbines and electric cars. Researchers say the boom in demand is driving destruction of tropical rainforests which are critical habitats for Africa's great apes.
"Africa is experiencing an unprecedented mining boom threatening wildlife populations and whole ecosystems," researchers wrote in the paper, published in Science Advances. Africa is home to an estimated 30% of the world's mineral resources, and substantial production increases in renewable energy are expected to drive up demand.
Mining harms apes through habitat loss, pollution and disease. It can also make habitats more accessible to hunters and farmers, as roads are carved into forest. More than two-thirds of primate species are already threatened with extinction.
"A shift away from fossil fuels is good for the climate but must be done in a way that does not jeopardise biodiversity," said lead researcher Dr Jessica Junker from the non-profit conservation organisation Re:wild. "In its current iteration it may even be going against the very environmental goals we're aiming for ... It is crucial for everyone to adopt a mindset of reduced consumption."
Bwenge gorillas in Bwindi Impenetrable Forest national park on the border of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda. Photograph: Courtesy of Martha M Robbins/Max Planck Institute
Understanding the net impact of mining for energy transition minerals on biodiversity is challenging. The climate crisis also threatens great apes, and clean energy technologies are important to avoiding the worst effects of global heating.
The paper - written in collaboration with researchers from the German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research and the Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg - used data on operational and pre-operational mining sites in 17 African countries and mapped areas where mining and high ape densities overlapped. It defined a buffer area of 10km around the mine as the area that would be directly affected and a 50km buffer for indirect impacts.
The paper found that the largest mining impacts on apes were in the west African countries Liberia, Sierra Leone, Mali and Guinea. In Guinea, more than 23,000 chimpanzees (83% of the population) could be directly or indirectly affected by mining activities.
Even the most ecologically sensitive areas are generally not protected. Unrelated to apes, the paper found that 20% of mining areas overlapped with regions that were considered unique for biodiversity, or labelled "critical habitats". Junker said: "Companies, lenders and nations need to recognise that it may sometimes be of greater value to leave some regions untouched to mitigate climate change and help prevent future epidemics."
Researchers said more could be done to mitigate mining's effects on endangered species. Mining companies are not required to make biodiversity data publicly available. It is possible that the impact of mining projects on great apes and other species is even higher than this paper found, according to the researchers.
Biodiversity offset schemes are typically developed to last as long as the mining project does, although impacts on great apes are permanent. "Mining companies need to focus on avoiding their impacts on great apes as much as possible and use offsetting as a last resort, as there is currently no example of a great ape offset that has been successful," said Dr Genevieve Campbell from the International Union for Conservation of Nature, who is also a senior researcher at Re:wild.
#304
Nearly 200 countries at the Cop28 climate summit have agreed to a deal that for the first time calls on all nations to transition away from fossil fuels to avert the worst effects of climate change.
After two weeks of at times fractious negotiations in the United Arab Emirates, the agreement was quickly gavelled through by the Cop28 president, Sultan Al Jaber, on Wednesday morning. He received an ovation from delegates and a hug from the UN climate chief, Simon Stiell.
Despite the urging of more than 130 countries and scientists and civil society groups, the agreement did not include an explicit commitment to phase out or even phase down fossil fuels.
Instead, it reached a compromise that called on countries to contribute to global efforts to transition "away from fossil fuels in energy systems in a just, orderly and equitable manner, accelerating action in this critical decade, so as to achieve net zero by 2050 in keeping with the science".

Al Jaber argued that the deal, reached in the hottest year on record, was a comprehensive response to a global stocktake that found countries were failing to live up to the goals of the landmark Paris climate agreement, particularly a commitment to try to limit global heating to 1.5C (2.7F) above preindustrial levels.
"We have delivered a robust action plan to keep 1.5C in reach," he said. "It is an enhanced, balanced, but make no mistake, a historic package to accelerate climate action. It is the UAE consensus. We have language on fossil fuel in our final agreement for the first time ever."
Countries from the global south and climate justice advocates said the text fell short of what was needed on emissions reductions and finance to help the most vulnerable cope with worsening extreme weather and heat, and included language that appeared to placate fossil fuel interests.
There was confusion in the plenary hall shortly after the agreement was passed as many parties had assumed there would be a debate over the text. The Alliance of Small Island States, representing 39 countries, said it had not been in the room when the deal was adopted as it was still coordinating its response.
Its lead negotiator, Anne Rasmussen, from Samoa, did not formally object to the agreement and believed the deal had good elements, but said the "the process has failed us" and the text included a "litany of loopholes". "We have made an incremental advancement over business as usual when what we really needed is an exponential step change in our actions and support," she said. Her speech was met with a standing ovation.
'Litany of loopholes': Samoa delegate challenges Cop28 president on climate pact - video
Most praise for the deal focused on the call to transition away from coal, oil and gas. Prof Johan Rockström, of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany, said: "No, the Cop28 agreement will not enable the world to hold the 1.5C limit, but yes, the result is a pivotal landmark. This agreement delivers on making it clear to all financial institutions, businesses and societies that we are now finally - eight years behind the Paris schedule - at the true 'beginning of the end' of the fossil fuel-driven world economy."
The UN secretary general, António Guterres, tweeted: "Whether you like it or not, fossil fuel phase-out is inevitable. Let's hope it doesn't come too late."
John Kerry, the US special presidential envoy for climate, said: "While nobody here will see their views completely reflected, the fact is that this document sends a very strong signal to the world."
Key points to come out of the deal included:
* It reinforced the 1.5C goal and recognised it would require a 43% emissions cut by 2030 and 60% by 2035 relative to 2019 levels. It implies a major increase in targets and policies when countries submit new commitments in 2025.
* Countries backed a call for global renewable energy to be tripled and the rate of energy efficiency improvements doubled by 2030.
* A statement that global emissions should peak by 2025 was dropped. China, among others, objected to this despite evidence it may be on track to peak its own emissions by then.
* Language backed by fossil fuel interests found its way into the text, including "transitional fuels" - seen as a code for natural gas - and "carbon capture and utilisation and storage".
* Little progress was made on climate adaptation and finance, which the deal acknowledges will need trillions of dollars in support.
* A loss and damage fund to help the most vulnerable repair the damage from climate breakdown was operationalised - a major step forward - but significant work remains to build its capacity.
The strained nature of the agreement reflects the UN climate conference's consensus process. Once a deal is reached, individual countries are responsible for delivering on the agreements through national policies and investments.
Many developed countries had joined the most vulnerable in publicly pushing for a phase-out of coal, oil and gas. The European Union said there was a "supermajority" in support for the idea, but many wealthy countries wanted it only to apply to "unabated" fossil fuels - those where the emissions from burning them are not captured.
Saudi Arabia and a few allied countries objected to the inclusion of any reference to reducing the production and consumption of fossil fuels in the text of a potential deal. After the deal, a Saudi Arabian representative reportedly said the texts agreed "do not affect our exports, do not affect our ability to sell". Opec, the group of oil producers of which Saudi Arabia and UAE are both members, congratulated the Cop on the "positive outcome".
Stiell said Cop28 had needed to signal a "hard stop to humanity's core climate problem - fossil fuels and their planet-burning pollution" - and the final agreement left a lot of room for interpretation. It was up to countries to commit to its most ambitious interpretation, he said.
"If all countries don't take this approach, loopholes leave us vulnerable to fossil fuel vested interests, which could crash our ability to protect people everywhere against rising climate impacts," he said.
Mohamed Adow, from the thinktank Power Shift Africa, said the deal sent a strong signal but he agreed there were too many loopholes "on unproven and expensive technologies like carbon capture and storage, which fossil fuel interests will try and use to keep dirty energy on life support".
He said: "Some people may have had their expectations for this meeting raised too high, but this result would have been unheard of two years ago, especially at a Cop meeting in a petrostate. It shows that even oil and gas producers can see we're heading for a fossil-free world."
Countries will reconvene at Cop29, which will be held in Baku, Azerbaijan, next November.
#305
The United States is poised to extract more oil and gas than ever before in 2023, a year that is certain to be the hottest ever recorded, providing a daunting backdrop to crucial United Nations climate talks that hold the hope of an agreement to end the era of fossil fuels.
The US's status as the world's leading oil and gas behemoth has only strengthened this year, even amid warnings from Joe Biden himself over the unfolding climate crisis, with the latest federal government forecast showing a record 12.9m barrels of crude oil per day, more than double what was produced a decade ago, will be extracted in 2023.

Records will also be broken this year for gas production, with a glut of new export terminals on the Gulf of Mexico coast facilitating a boom that will see US exports of liquified natural gas (or LNG) double in the next four years.
Tellingly, the US government expects this frenzy of oil and gas activity to continue at near-record levels right up to 2050, a point at which scientists say planet-heating emissions must be eliminated to avoid catastrophic climate breakdown. A third of the world's planned oil and gas expansion in this period will occur in the US, a recent report found.
At the Cop28 climate summit, starting in Dubai this week, the European Union and a cadre of "high ambition" countries that range from Kenya to Samoa will push for an agreed "phaseout" of fossil fuels. António Guterres, secretary general of the UN, has called fossil fuel production the "poisonous root" of the climate crisis that should be dismantled. "Cop28 must send a clear signal that the fossil fuel age is out of gas, that its end is inevitable," he said.
The US's surging fossil fuel production casts a pall over such ambitions, however. "It's particularly alarming to see the projections of record US oil and gas production year after year until 2050," said Michael Lazarus, a senior scientist at Stockholm Environment Institute, which helped produce a recent UN report finding the world is planning double the amount of fossil fuel production consistent with remaining within a 1.5C (2.7F) global temperature rise compared with pre-industrial times.
"The US is locking in production for years that makes it hard to meet climate goals," he said. "It's out of sync and it needs reckoning."
Under Biden, the US has passed its first major climate legislation, called the Inflation Reduction Act, which has spurred record investment in clean energy such as solar and wind, as well as propel sales of electric vehicles.
The US president's administration has fashioned new pollution rules to slash emissions from cars, trucks and power plants and recently struck a renewed agreement with China, the only country that emits more carbon than the US, to do more to stem the climate crisis. US energy emissions, meanwhile, have been edging downwards and are expected to drop 3% this year, albeit at a slower rate than needed to meet its own climate goals.
But the proliferation of domestic oil and gas drilling has alarmed scientists and some of Biden's allies, who fret that it undermines efforts to avert a looming 3C in global heating that Guterres has described as "hellish".
Jeff Merkley, a Democratic senator from Oregon, said US negotiators will be "unable to lead the phaseout of fossil fuels" at Cop28. "Not only do we produce more oil and gas than any other country, but Team Biden is greenlighting one fossil project after another," said Merkley. "The US is devoid of any moral authority to phasing out fossil fuels."
The increased fossil fuel production, which Biden championed last year as a way to tamp down gasoline prices for US drivers and to support overseas allies in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, also risks burdening disadvantaged communities living next to polluting infrastructure and threatens to alienate younger, climate-conscious voters ahead of next year's presidential election, an adviser to the White House has cautioned.
"They say they want to be leaders on climate but then do the opposite," said Jerome Foster, a climate activist and member of the White House environmental justice advisory council. "It's a mixed record and it's really sad to see. President Biden said he would be the climate president but we aren't seeing that. He's not keeping his promises, he's not got gen Z's back."
The US delegation to the Cop28 summit - Biden is not expected to attend this year - has indicated it would support agreement language that calls for the phase out of fossil fuels that are unabated by measures such as carbon capture technology. Officials led by John Kerry, the US climate envoy, admit the exact phrasing may have to be "creative" to gain the consensus of nearly 200 countries, which include other major oil producers such as Russia and Saudi Arabia.
"A US priority will be how to catalyze action to keep to 1.5C, and there are going to be lots of conversations with countries to phrase that in a way that makes the most sense," said Nate Hultman, a former aide to Kerry, now an expert in climate policy at the University of Maryland. "But we have a dynamic that feels awkward, of how to reconcile the world we are living in, that's heavily fossil fuel-driven, with the vision of a clean, non-emitting world. That's the tension."
Even if such a phaseout declaration is made in Dubai, there is little certainty it will be swiftly fulfilled within the voluntary Cop process. A previous agreement to "phase down" coal use, at a Cop meeting in Scotland in 2021, was followed a year later by the UK allowing the creation of a new coalmine. Multiple new coal plants continue to spring up in China, meanwhile, despite Kerry agitating for the country's coal use to be curbed.
Halting the use of fossil fuels, the primary cause of the climate crisis, has been elusive in three decades of international climate talks, with major producers now planning a major ramp-up even in the face of escalating heatwaves, floods, droughts and other climate change-fueled disasters.
Biden may have provided a popular boost to renewable energy in the US, but displacing a firmly entrenched fossil fuel industry via a carbon tax or other regulations remains a political no-go area, beyond a fee charged for waste emissions of methane, a potent planet-heating gas.
Instead, Biden has been handing out oil and gas drilling leases on public lands at a rate comparable to Donald Trump, with the emissions from 17 large projects permitted by his administration, including the controversial Willow oil complex in Alaska, set to cause more than 3.2bn tonnes of greenhouse gases over their lifetime, a new report by the Center for Biological Diversity calculated.
"What the Inflation Reduction Act didn't do in any way disincentivize the use of fossil fuels - it was all carrots and no sticks," said Kelly Gallagher, a former climate adviser to Barack Obama's administration and now interim dean at the Fletcher School at Tufts University. "If the US had done this 20 years ago, it would be a great approach to grow clean energy first before reducing fossil fuel production. But we have very little time now.
"What's difficult is that we are in an election year now and it's unlikely that President Biden is going to take steps to hasten the decline of fossil fuels in the US."
For large oil and gas companies, Cop28 does not yet appear to be a death knell. The summit's president, Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, chief executive of Adnoc, the national oil company of the United Arab Emirates, has talked enthusiastically about working with industry to phase down emissions, rather than scrap the central business model of oil and gas extraction itself.
"My hope would be that you start to see more emphasis put on a problem statement of eliminating emissions, versus a problem statement focused on the oil and gas industry per se," Darren Woods, chief executive of Exxon, said this month.
#306

The large infrastructure bill passed by the US Senate and hailed by Joe Biden as a key tool to tackle the climate crisis includes billions of dollars to support a supposedly clean fuel that is potentially even more polluting than coal, new research has found.
The $1tn infrastructure package, which passed with bipartisan support on Tuesday, includes $8bn to develop "clean hydrogen" via the creation of four new regional hubs. The White House has said the bill advances Biden's climate agenda and proponents of hydrogen have touted it as a low-emissions alternative to fuel shipping, trucking, aviation and even home heating.
But a new study has found surprisingly large emissions from the production of so-called "blue" hydrogen, a variant being enthusiastically pushed by the fossil fuel industry and probably falling under the definition of clean hydrogen in the Senate bill.
Blue hydrogen involves splitting gas into hydrogen and carbon dioxide and then capturing and storing the CO2 to ensure it doesn't heat the planet. But this process involves the incidental release of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, and uses a huge amount of energy to separate and then store the carbon dioxide, some of which escapes anyway.
This means that the production of this hydrogen actually creates 20% more greenhouse gases than coal, commonly regarded the most polluting fossil fuel, when being burned for heat, and 60% more than burning diesel, according to the new paper, published in the Energy Science & Engineering journal.
"It's pretty striking, I was surprised at the results," said Robert Howarth, a scientist at Cornell University who authored the paper alongside Mark Jacobson, a Stanford University researcher. "Blue hydrogen is a nice marketing term that the oil and gas industry is keen to push but it's far from carbon free. I don't think we should be spending our funds this way, on these sort of false solutions."
The Hydrogen Council, a group that includes the oil companies BP, Total and Shell among its members, has said that hydrogen has a "key role to play in the global energy transition" by replacing more polluting fuels, predicting it will account for 18% of total energy demand by 2050.
Dozens of gas companies in the US have started producing hydrogen or testing its viability in existing gas pipelines, which some climate campaigners have said is a step towards entrenching fossil fuel infrastructure at a time when the world, as outlined by Monday's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, needs to rapidly move to net-zero emissions.
But others are more upbeat about the use of hydrogen to help lower emissions in some stubbornly polluting sectors. "Hydrogen is not a panacea or a silver bullet, but it appears to be critical for decarbonization of 'hard-to-electrify' sectors such as long-haul heavy trucking, international marine shipping and some parts of heavy industry," said Mike Fowler, director of advanced energy technology research at the Clean Air Task Force.
There is a form of "green" hydrogen that involves producing hydrogen from water using only renewable energy, but this option isn't explicitly chosen for funding by the infrastructure bill, which still needs to pass the Democrat-held House of Representatives.
"We look at that bill and see massive giveaways to fossil fuel infrastructure that is incompatible with serious climate action," said Carroll Muffett, chief executive of the Center for International Environmental Law. "Congress went out of its way to not specify green hydrogen and so this funding just helps prop up the fossil fuel industry. The potential of these technologies is being routinely overstated even as the impacts are being understated."
The latest IPCC report, which warned of "irreversible" impacts if emissions aren't drastically cut, identified methane, produced from oil and gas drilling and animal agriculture, as providing a huge contribution to current global heating. If methane, a short-lived but very powerful greenhouse gas, was cut by around half this decade, it would shave 0.3C off the increase in global temperature by 2040.
Progressive Democrats hope that methane, as well as other greenhouse gases, will be more comprehensively tackled in an upcoming $3.5tn reconciliation bill that will include far stronger climate measures than the infrastructure legislation.
#307
There is "no sign" of the transition away from burning fossil fuels that was pledged by the world's nations a year ago, with 2024 on track to set another new record for global carbon emissions.
On Monday, the Cop28 president, Sultan Al Jaber, told the summit in Baku: "History will judge us by our actions, not by our words."
The rate of increase of carbon emissions has slowed over the last decade or so, as the rollout of renewable energy and electric vehicles has accelerated. But after a year when global heating has fuelled deadly heatwaves, floods and storms, the pressure is on the negotiators meeting in Baku to finally reach the peak of fossil fuel burning and start a rapid decline.
Cop29 will focus on mobilising the trillion dollars a year needed for developing nations to curb their emissions as they improve the lives of their citizens and to protect them against the now inevitable climate chaos to come. The summit also aims to increase the ambition of the next round of countries' emission-cutting pledges, due in February.
The new data comes from the Global Carbon Budget (https://globalcarbonbudget.org/) project, a collaboration of more than 100 experts led by Prof Pierre Friedlingstein, at the University of Exeter, UK. "The impacts of climate change are becoming increasingly dramatic, yet we still see no sign that burning of fossil fuels has peaked. Time is running out and world leaders meeting at Cop29 must bring about rapid and deep cuts to fossil fuel emissions."
Prof Corinne Le Quéré, at the University of East Anglia, UK, said: "The transition away from fossil fuels is clearly not happening yet at the global level, but our report does highlight that there are 22 countries that have decreased their emissions significantly [while their economies grew]." The 22 countries, representing a quarter of global emissions, include the UK, Germany and the US.
The calculation of 2024 emissions is based on the data available up to October and estimates for the final months of the year, which have been accurate in the past. More than 37bn tonnes will be emitted in 2024, about 4m tonnes an hour.
Gas emissions show the biggest annual increase, 2.4%, thanks to increased use in China and elsewhere. Oil burning increased by 0.9%, driven in particular by international flights, while coal emissions are expected to rise marginally by 0.2%.
The emissions of China, the world's biggest polluter, are expected to rise slightly. "It has had another record year of growth in renewable power, but coal power also kept growing due to even faster growth in electricity demand from hi-tech industries and residential consumption," said Jan Ivar Korsbakken, at Center for International Climate Research (Cicero) in Norway. Emissions from oil in China have probably peaked owing to the boom in electric vehicles.
Emissions from the second biggest polluter, the US, are expected to decline slightly, with coal continuing its decline to its lowest level in 120 years, but offset by an increase in gas burning. Coal emissions are falling even faster in the European Union, driving a 3.8% drop in emissions. However, coal burning is increasing in India as its economy grows strongly, leading to a 4.6% rise.
The Global Carbon Budget also calculates the emissions from the destruction of forests, some of which are compensated for by the regrowth of trees elsewhere. These emissions have declined by about 20% over the last decade. However, they rose in 2024 because of the drying effect of El Niño, which increased droughts and wildfires in key regions.
Most of the emissions from deforestation comes from Brazil, Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. "Much of these emissions result from the export of goods to the global north, for example soya beans from South America going to China and to Europe," said Prof Julia Pongratz, at the University of Munich, Germany.
Overall, the combined emissions from both fossil fuels and deforestation will reach another record high in 2024. "There is a feeling that a peak in global fossil CO2 emissions is imminent, but it remains elusive," said Dr Glen Peters, also at the Center for International Climate Research. "The world continually finds ways to burn ever more fossil fuels."
"At Cop29, we need to see countries come to the table with [commitments] that end fossil fuel expansion and accelerate renewable energy," he said. The host of Cop29, Azerbaijan, is planning a major expansion in gas production in the next decade.










































